( Music ) This is the human test , a test to see if you are a human .
Please raise your hand if something applies to you .
Are we agreed ? Yes ?
Then let &apos;s begin .
Have you ever eaten a booger long past your childhood ?
( Laughter ) It &apos;s okay , it &apos;s safe here .
Have you ever made a small , weird sound when you remembered something embarrassing ?
Have you ever purposely lowercased the first letter of a text in order to come across as sad or disappointed ?
( Laughter ) Okay .
Have you ever ended a text with a period as a sign of aggression ? Okay . Period .
Have you ever laughed or smiled when someone said something shitty to you and then spent the rest of the day wondering why you reacted that way ?
Yes .
Have you ever seemed to lose your airplane ticket a thousand times as you walked from the check-in to the gate ?
Yes .
Have you ever put on a pair of pants and then much later realized that there was a loose sock smushed up against your thigh ?
( Laughter ) Good .
Have you ever tried to guess someone else &apos;s password so many times that it locked their account ?
Mmm .
Have you ever had a nagging feeling that one day you will be discovered as a fraud ?
Yes , it &apos;s safe here .
Have you ever hoped that there was some ability you hadn &apos;t discovered yet that you were just naturally great at ?
Mmm .
Have you ever broken something in real life , and then found yourself looking for an &quot; &quot; undo &quot; &quot; button in real life ?
Have you ever misplaced your TED badge and then immediately started imagining what a three-day Vancouver vacation might look like ?
Have you ever marveled at how someone you thought was so ordinary could suddenly become so beautiful ?
Have you ever stared at your phone smiling like an idiot while texting with someone ?
Have you ever subsequently texted that person the phrase &quot; &quot; I &apos;m staring at the phone smiling like an idiot &quot; &quot; ?
Have you ever been tempted to , and then gave in to the temptation , of looking through someone else &apos;s phone ?
Have you ever had a conversation with yourself and then suddenly realized you &apos;re a real asshole to yourself ?
( Laughter ) Has your phone ever run out of battery in the middle of an argument , and it sort of felt like the phone was breaking up with both of you ?
Have you ever thought that working on an issue between you was futile because it should just be easier than this , or this is supposed to happen just naturally ?
Have you ever realized that very little , in the long run , just happens naturally ?
Have you ever woken up blissfully and suddenly been flooded by the awful remembrance that someone had left you ?
Have you ever lost the ability to imagine a future without a person that no longer was in your life ?
Have you ever looked back on that event with the sad smile of autumn and the realization that futures will happen regardless ?
Congratulations .
You have now completed the test .
You are all human .
( Applause )
We grew up interacting with the physical objects around us .
There are an enormous number of them that we use every day .
Unlike most of our computing devices , these objects are much more fun to use .
When you talk about objects , one other thing automatically comes attached to that thing , and that is gestures : how we manipulate these objects , how we use these objects in everyday life .
We use gestures not only to interact with these objects , but we also use them to interact with each other .
A gesture of &quot; &quot; Namaste ! &quot; &quot; , maybe , to respect someone , or maybe , in India I don &apos;t need to teach a kid that this means &quot; &quot; four runs &quot; &quot; in cricket .
It comes as a part of our everyday learning .
So , I am very interested , from the beginning , how our knowledge about everyday objects and gestures , and how we use these objects , can be leveraged to our interactions with the digital world .
Rather than using a keyboard and mouse , why can I not use my computer in the same way that I interact in the physical world ?
So , I started this exploration around eight years back , and it literally started with a mouse on my desk .
Rather than using it for my computer , I actually opened it .
Most of you might be aware that , in those days , the mouse used to come with a ball inside , and there were two rollers that actually guide the computer where the ball is moving , and , accordingly , where the mouse is moving .
So , I was interested in these two rollers , and I actually wanted more , so I borrowed another mouse from a friend — never returned to him — and I now had four rollers .
Interestingly , what I did with these rollers is , basically , I took them off of these mouses and then put them in one line .
It had some strings and pulleys and some springs .
What I got is basically a gesture-interface device that actually acts as a motion-sensing device made for two dollars .
So , here , whatever movement I do in my physical world is actually replicated inside the digital world just using this small device that I made , around eight years back , in 2000 .
Because I was interested in integrating these two worlds , I thought of sticky notes .
I thought , &quot; &quot; Why can I not connect the normal interface of a physical sticky note to the digital world ? &quot; &quot; A message written on a sticky note to my mom , on paper , can come to an SMS , or maybe a meeting reminder automatically syncs with my digital calendar — a to-do list that automatically syncs with you .
But you can also search in the digital world , or maybe you can write a query , saying , &quot; What is Dr. Smith &apos;s address ? &quot;
and this small system actually prints it out — so it actually acts like a paper input-output system , just made out of paper .
In another exploration , I thought of making a pen that can draw in three dimensions .
So , I implemented this pen that can help designers and architects not only think in three dimensions , but they can actually draw , so that it &apos;s more intuitive to use that way .
Then I thought , &quot; &quot; Why not make a Google Map , but in the physical world ? &quot; &quot; Rather than typing a keyword to find something , I put my objects on top of it .
If I put a boarding pass , it will show me where the flight gate is .
A coffee cup will show where you can find more coffee , or where you can trash the cup .
So , these were some of the earlier explorations I did because the goal was to connect these two worlds seamlessly .
Among all these experiments , there was one thing in common : I was trying to bring a part of the physical world to the digital world .
I was taking some part of the objects , or any of the intuitiveness of real life , and bringing them to the digital world , because the goal was to make our computing interfaces more intuitive .
What we are interested in is information .
We want to know about things .
We want to know about dynamic things going around .
So I thought , around last year — in the beginning of the last year — I started thinking , &quot; &quot; Why can I not take this approach in the reverse way ? &quot; &quot; Maybe , &quot; &quot; How about I take my digital world and paint the physical world with that digital information ? &quot; &quot; Because pixels are actually , right now , confined in these rectangular devices that fit in our pockets .
Why can I not remove this confine and take that to my everyday objects , everyday life so that I don &apos;t need to learn the new language for interacting with those pixels ?
So , in order to realize this dream , I actually thought of putting a big-size projector on my head .
I think that &apos;s why this is called a head-mounted projector , isn &apos;t it ?
I took it very literally , and took my bike helmet , put a little cut over there so that the projector actually fits nicely .
So now , what I can do — I can augment the world around me with this digital information .
Later , we moved to a much better , consumer-oriented pendant version of that , that many of you now know as the SixthSense device .
But the most interesting thing about this particular technology is that you can carry your digital world with you wherever you go .
You can start using any surface , any wall around you , as an interface .
The camera is actually tracking all your gestures .
Whatever you &apos;re doing with your hands , it &apos;s understanding that gesture .
And , actually , if you see , there are some color markers that in the beginning version we are using with it .
You stop by a wall , and start painting on that wall .
But we are not only tracking one finger , here .
We are giving you the freedom of using all of both of your hands , so you can actually use both of your hands to zoom into or zoom out of a map just by pinching all present .
The camera is actually doing — just , getting all the images — is doing the edge recognition and also the color recognition and so many other small algorithms are going on inside .
So , technically , it &apos;s a little bit complex , but it gives you an output which is more intuitive to use , in some sense .
Rather than getting your camera out of your pocket , you can just do the gesture of taking a photo , and it takes a photo for you .
( Applause ) Thank you .
And later I can find a wall , anywhere , and start browsing those photos or maybe , &quot; &quot; OK , I want to modify this photo a little bit and send it as an email to a friend . &quot; &quot; So , we are looking for an era where computing will actually merge with the physical world .
And , of course , if you don &apos;t have any surface , you can start using your palm for simple operations .
Here , I &apos;m dialing a phone number just using my hand .
The camera is actually not only understanding your hand movements , but , interestingly , is also able to understand what objects you are holding in your hand .
For example , in this case , the book cover is matched with so many thousands , or maybe millions of books online , and checking out which book it is .
Once it has that information , it finds out more reviews about that , or maybe New York Times has a sound overview on that , so you can actually hear , on a physical book , a review as sound .
( Video ) Famous talk at Harvard University — This was Obama &apos;s visit last week to MIT .
( Video ) And particularly I want to thank two outstanding MIT — Pranav Mistry : So , I was seeing the live &#91; video &#93; of his talk , outside , on just a newspaper .
Your newspaper will show you live weather information rather than having it updated .
( Applause ) When I &apos;m going back , I can just use my boarding pass to check how much my flight has been delayed , because at that particular time , I &apos;m not feeling like opening my iPhone , and checking out a particular icon .
And I think this technology will not only change the way — ( Laughter ) Yes .
The fun part is , I &apos;m going to the Boston metro , and playing a pong game inside the train on the ground , right ?
( Laughter ) And I think the imagination is the only limit of what you can think of when this kind of technology merges with real life .
And many of you are excited about the next-generation tablet computers to come out in the market .
So , rather than waiting for that , I actually made my own , just using a piece of paper .
So , what I did here is remove the camera — All the webcam cameras have a microphone inside the camera .
I removed the microphone from that , and then just pinched that — like I just made a clip out of the microphone — and clipped that to a piece of paper , any paper that you found around .
So now the sound of the touch is getting me when exactly I &apos;m touching the paper .
But the camera is actually tracking where my fingers are moving .
You can of course watch movies .
( Video ) Good afternoon . My name is Russell , and I am a Wilderness Explorer in Tribe 54 . &quot; &quot; PM : And you can of course play games .
( Car engine ) Here , the camera is actually understanding how you &apos;re holding the paper and playing a car-racing game .
( Applause ) Many of you already must have thought , OK , you can browse .
So , more interestingly , I &apos;m interested in how we can take that in a more dynamic way .
When I come back to my desk , I can just pinch that information back to my desktop so I can use my full-size computer .
( Applause ) And why only computers ? We can just play with papers .
Paper world is interesting to play with .
Here , I &apos;m taking a part of a document , and putting over here a second part from a second place , and I &apos;m actually modifying the information that I have over there .
Yeah . And I say , &quot; &quot; OK , this looks nice , let me print it out , that thing . &quot; &quot; So I now have a print-out of that thing .
So the workflow is more intuitive , the way we used to do it maybe 20 years back , rather than now switching between these two worlds .
So , as a last thought , I think that integrating information to everyday objects will not only help us to get rid of the digital divide , the gap between these two worlds , but will also help us , in some way , to stay human , to be more connected to our physical world .
And it will actually help us not end up being machines sitting in front of other machines .
( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause )
Chris Anderson : So , Pranav , first of all , you &apos;re a genius .
This is incredible , really .
What are you doing with this ? Is there a company being planned ?
Pranav Mistry : So , there are lots of companies , sponsor companies of Media Lab interested in taking this ahead in one or another way .
PM : I &apos;m trying to make this more available to people so that anyone can develop their own SixthSense device , because the hardware is actually not that hard to manufacture or hard to make your own .
We will provide all the open source software for them , maybe starting next month .
CA : Open source ? Wow .
( Applause ) CA : Are you going to come back to India with some of this , at some point ?
CA : What are your plans ? MIT ? India ?
How are you going to split your time going forward ?
All of this work that you have seen is all about my learning in India .
And now , if you see , it &apos;s more about the cost-effectiveness : this system costs you $ 300 compared to the $ 20,000 surface tables , or anything like that .
Or maybe even the $ 2 mouse gesture system at that time was costing around $ 5,000 ?
I showed that , at a conference , to President Abdul Kalam , at that time , and then he said , &quot; &quot; OK , we should use this in Bhabha Atomic Research Centre for some use of that . &quot; &quot; So I &apos;m excited about how I can bring the technology to the masses rather than just keeping that technology in the lab environment .
( Applause ) CA : Based on the people we &apos;ve seen at TED , I would say you &apos;re truly one of the two or three best inventors in the world right now .
Thank you so much .
That &apos;s fantastic .
There are a lot of ways the people around us can help improve our lives .
We don &apos;t bump into every neighbor , so a lot of wisdom never gets passed on , though we do share the same public spaces .
So over the past few years , I &apos;ve tried ways to share more with my neighbors in public space , using simple tools like stickers , stencils and chalk .
( Laughter ) How can we lend and borrow more things , without knocking on each other &apos;s doors at a bad time ?
How can we share more memories of our abandoned buildings , and gain a better understanding of our landscape ?
Now , I live in New Orleans , and I am in love with New Orleans .
I feel like every time someone sneezes , New Orleans has a parade .
In 2009 , I lost someone I loved very much .
And her death was sudden and unexpected .
I feel like it &apos;s easy to get caught up in the day-to-day , and forget what really matters to you .
So with help from old and new friends , I turned the side of this abandoned house into a giant chalkboard , and stenciled it with a fill-in-the-blank sentence : &quot; Before I die , I want to ... &quot;
I didn &apos;t know what to expect from this experiment , but by the next day , the wall was entirely filled out , and it kept growing .
&quot; Before I die , I want to be tried for piracy . &quot;
&quot; Before I die , I want to hold her one more time . &quot;
So this neglected space became a constructive one , and people &apos;s hopes and dreams made me laugh out loud , tear up , and they consoled me during my own tough times .
It &apos;s about knowing you &apos;re not alone ; it &apos;s about understanding our neighbors in new and enlightening ways ; it &apos;s about making space for reflection and contemplation , and remembering what really matters most to us as we grow and change .
I made this last year , and started receiving hundreds of messages from passionate people who wanted to make a wall with their community .
So , my civic center colleagues and I made a tool kit , and now walls have been made in countries around the world , including Kazakhstan , South Africa , Australia , Argentina , and beyond .
Together , we &apos;ve shown how powerful our public spaces can be if we &apos;re given the opportunity to have a voice , and share more with one another .
Our shared spaces can better reflect what matters to us , as individuals and as a community , and with more ways to share our hopes , fears and stories , the people around us can not only help us make better places , they can help us lead better lives .
( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause )
The theme of my talk today is , &quot; Be an artist , right now . &quot;
Most people , when this subject is brought up , get tense and resist it : &quot; &quot; Art doesn &apos;t feed me , and right now I &apos;m busy .
I have to go to school , get a job , send my kids to lessons ... &quot; &quot; You think , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m too busy . I don &apos;t have time for art . &quot; &quot; There are hundreds of reasons why we can &apos;t be artists right now .
Don &apos;t they just pop into your head ?
There are so many reasons why we can &apos;t be , indeed , we &apos;re not sure why we should be .
We don &apos;t know why we should be artists , but we have many reasons why we can &apos;t be .
Why do people instantly resist the idea of associating themselves with art ?
Perhaps you think art is for the greatly gifted or for the thoroughly and professionally trained .
And some of you may think you &apos;ve strayed too far from art .
Well you might have , but I don &apos;t think so .
This is the theme of my talk today .
We are all born artists .
If you have kids , you know what I mean .
Almost everything kids do is art .
They draw with crayons on the wall .
They dance to Son Dam Bi &apos;s dance on TV , but you can &apos;t even call it Son Dam Bi &apos;s dance — it becomes the kids &apos; own dance .
So they dance a strange dance and inflict their singing on everyone .
Perhaps their art is something only their parents can bear , and because they practice such art all day long , people honestly get a little tired around kids .
Kids will sometimes perform monodramas — playing house is indeed a monodrama or a play .
And some kids , when they get a bit older , start to lie .
Usually parents remember the very first time their kid lies .
They &apos;re shocked .
&quot; Now you &apos;re showing your true colors , &quot; Mom says . She thinks , &quot; Why does he take after his dad ? &quot;
She questions him , &quot; &quot; What kind of a person are you going to be ? &quot; &quot; But you shouldn &apos;t worry .
The moment kids start to lie is the moment storytelling begins .
They are talking about things they didn &apos;t see .
It &apos;s amazing . It &apos;s a wonderful moment .
Parents should celebrate .
&quot; Hurray ! My boy finally started to lie ! &quot;
All right ! It calls for celebration .
For example , a kid says , &quot; &quot; Mom , guess what ? I met an alien on my way home . &quot; &quot; Then a typical mom responds , &quot; &quot; Stop that nonsense . &quot; &quot; Now , an ideal parent is someone who responds like this : &quot; &quot; Really ? An alien , huh ? What did it look like ? Did it say anything ?
Where did you meet it ? &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; Um , in front of the supermarket . &quot; &quot; When you have a conversation like this , the kid has to come up with the next thing to say to be responsible for what he started .
Soon , a story develops .
Of course this is an infantile story , but thinking up one sentence after the next is the same thing a professional writer like me does .
In essence , they are not different .
Roland Barthes once said of Flaubert &apos;s novels , &quot; &quot; Flaubert did not write a novel .
He merely connected one sentence after another .
The eros between sentences , that is the essence of Flaubert &apos;s novel . &quot; &quot; That &apos;s right — a novel , basically , is writing one sentence , then , without violating the scope of the first one , writing the next sentence .
And you continue to make connections .
Take a look at this sentence : &quot; One morning , as Gregor Samsa was waking up from anxious dreams , he discovered that in his bed he had been changed into a monstrous verminous bug . &quot;
Yes , it &apos;s the first sentence of Franz Kafka &apos;s &quot; &quot; The Metamorphosis . &quot; &quot; Writing such an unjustifiable sentence and continuing in order to justify it , Kafka &apos;s work became the masterpiece of contemporary literature .
Kafka did not show his work to his father .
He was not on good terms with his father .
On his own , he wrote these sentences .
Had he shown his father , &quot; &quot; My boy has finally lost it , &quot; &quot; he would &apos;ve thought .
And that &apos;s right . Art is about going a little nuts and justifying the next sentence , which is not much different from what a kid does .
A kid who has just started to lie is taking the first step as a storyteller .
Kids do art .
They don &apos;t get tired and they have fun doing it .
I was in Jeju Island a few days ago .
When kids are on the beach , most of them love playing in the water .
But some of them spend a lot of time in the sand , making mountains and seas — well , not seas , but different things — people and dogs , etc .
But parents tell them , &quot; It will all be washed away by the waves . &quot;
In other words , it &apos;s useless .
There &apos;s no need .
But kids don &apos;t mind .
They have fun in the moment and they keep playing in the sand .
Kids don &apos;t do it because someone told them to .
They aren &apos;t told by their boss or anyone , they just do it .
When you were little , I bet you spent time enjoying the pleasure of primitive art .
When I ask my students to write about their happiest moment , many write about an early artistic experience they had as a kid .
Learning to play piano for the first time and playing four hands with a friend , or performing a ridiculous skit with friends looking like idiots — things like that .
Or the moment you developed the first film you shot with an old camera .
They talk about these kinds of experiences .
You must have had such a moment .
In that moment , art makes you happy because it &apos;s not work .
Work doesn &apos;t make you happy , does it ? Mostly it &apos;s tough .
The French writer Michel Tournier has a famous saying .
It &apos;s a bit mischievous , actually .
&quot; Work is against human nature . The proof is that it makes us tired . &quot;
Right ? Why would work tire us if it &apos;s in our nature ?
Playing doesn &apos;t tire us .
We can play all night long .
If we work overnight , we should be paid for overtime .
Why ? Because it &apos;s tiring and we feel fatigue .
But kids , usually they do art for fun . It &apos;s playing .
They don &apos;t draw to sell the work to a client or play the piano to earn money for the family .
Of course , there were kids who had to .
You know this gentleman , right ?
He had to tour around Europe to support his family — Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart — but that was centuries ago , so we can make him an exception .
Unfortunately , at some point our art — such a joyful pastime — ends .
Kids have to go to lessons , to school , do homework and of course they take piano or ballet lessons , but they aren &apos;t fun anymore .
You &apos;re told to do it and there &apos;s competition . How can it be fun ?
If you &apos;re in elementary school and you still draw on the wall , you &apos;ll surely get in trouble with your mom .
Besides , if you continue to act like an artist as you get older , you &apos;ll increasingly feel pressure — people will question your actions and ask you to act properly .
Here &apos;s my story : I was an eighth grader and I entered a drawing contest at school in Gyeongbokgung .
I was trying my best , and my teacher came around and asked me , &quot; &quot; What are you doing ? &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; I &apos;m drawing diligently , &quot; &quot; I said .
&quot; Why are you using only black ? &quot;
Indeed , I was eagerly coloring the sketchbook in black .
And I explained , &quot; It &apos;s a dark night and a crow is perching on a branch . &quot;
Then my teacher said , &quot; Really ? Well , Young-ha , you may not be good at drawing but you have a talent for storytelling . &quot;
Or so I wished .
&quot; &quot; Now you &apos;ll get it , you rascal ! &quot; &quot; was the response . ( Laughter ) &quot; &quot; You &apos;ll get it ! &quot; &quot; he said .
You were supposed to draw the palace , the Gyeonghoeru , etc . , but I was coloring everything in black , so he dragged me out of the group .
There were a lot of girls there as well , so I was utterly mortified .
None of my explanations or excuses were heard , and I really got it big time .
If he was an ideal teacher , he would have responded like I said before , &quot; &quot; Young-ha may not have a talent for drawing , but he has a gift for making up stories , &quot; &quot; and he would have encouraged me .
But such a teacher is seldom found .
Later , I grew up and went to Europe &apos;s galleries — I was a university student — and I thought this was really unfair .
Look what I found . ( Laughter ) Works like this were hung in Basel while I was punished and stood in front of the palace with my drawing in my mouth .
Look at this . Doesn &apos;t it look just like wallpaper ?
Contemporary art , I later discovered , isn &apos;t explained by a lame story like mine .
No crows are brought up .
Most of the works have no title , Untitled .
Anyways , contemporary art in the 20th century is about doing something weird and filling the void with explanation and interpretation — essentially the same as I did .
Of course , my work was very amateur , but let &apos;s turn to more famous examples .
This is Picasso &apos;s .
He stuck handlebars into a bike seat and called it &quot; &quot; Bull &apos;s Head . &quot; &quot; Sounds convincing , right ?
Next , a urinal was placed on its side and called &quot; &quot; Fountain &quot; &quot; .
That was Duchamp .
So filling the gap between explanation and a weird act with stories — that &apos;s indeed what contemporary art is all about .
Picasso even made the statement , &quot; I draw not what I see but what I think . &quot;
Yes , it means I didn &apos;t have to draw Gyeonghoeru .
I wish I knew what Picasso said back then . I could have argued better with my teacher .
Unfortunately , the little artists within us are choked to death before we get to fight against the oppressors of art .
They get locked in .
That &apos;s our tragedy .
So what happens when little artists get locked in , banished or even killed ?
Our artistic desire doesn &apos;t go away .
We want to express , to reveal ourselves , but with the artist dead , the artistic desire reveals itself in dark form .
In karaoke bars , there are always people who sing &quot; She &apos;s Gone &quot; or &quot; Hotel California , &quot; miming the guitar riffs .
Usually they sound awful . Awful indeed .
Some people turn into rockers like this .
Or some people dance in clubs .
People who would have enjoyed telling stories end up trolling on the Internet all night long .
That &apos;s how a writing talent reveals itself on the dark side .
Sometimes we see dads get more excited than their kids playing with Legos or putting together plastic robots .
They go , &quot; &quot; Don &apos;t touch it . Daddy will do it for you . &quot; &quot; The kid has already lost interest and is doing something else , but the dad alone builds castles .
This shows the artistic impulses inside us are suppressed , not gone .
But they can often reveal themselves negatively , in the form of jealousy .
You know the song &quot; &quot; I would love to be on TV &quot; &quot; ? Why would we love it ?
TV is full of people who do what we wished to do , but never got to .
They dance , they act — and the more they do , they are praised .
So we start to envy them .
We become dictators with a remote and start to criticize the people on TV .
&quot; He just can &apos;t act . &quot; &quot; You call that singing ? She can &apos;t hit the notes . &quot;
We easily say these sorts of things .
We get jealous , not because we &apos;re evil , but because we have little artists pent up inside us .
That &apos;s what I think .
What should we do then ?
Yes , that &apos;s right .
Right now , we need to start our own art .
Right this minute , we can turn off TV , log off the Internet , get up and start to do something .
Where I teach students in drama school , there &apos;s a course called Dramatics .
In this course , all students must put on a play .
However , acting majors are not supposed to act .
They can write the play , for example , and the writers may work on stage art .
Likewise , stage art majors may become actors , and in this way you put on a show .
Students at first wonder whether they can actually do it , but later they have so much fun . I rarely see anyone who is miserable doing a play .
In school , the military or even in a mental institution , once you make people do it , they enjoy it .
I saw this happen in the army — many people had fun doing plays .
I have another experience : In my writing class , I give students a special assignment .
I have students like you in the class — many who don &apos;t major in writing .
Some major in art or music and think they can &apos;t write .
So I give them blank sheets of paper and a theme .
It can be a simple theme : Write about the most unfortunate experience in your childhood .
There &apos;s one condition : You must write like crazy . Like crazy !
I walk around and encourage them , &quot; &quot; Come on , come on ! &quot; &quot; They have to write like crazy for an hour or two .
They only get to think for the first five minutes .
The reason I make them write like crazy is because when you write slowly and lots of thoughts cross your mind , the artistic devil creeps in .
This devil will tell you hundreds of reasons why you can &apos;t write : &quot; &quot; People will laugh at you . This is not good writing !
What kind of sentence is this ? Look at your handwriting ! &quot; &quot; It will say a lot of things .
You have to run fast so the devil can &apos;t catch up .
The really good writing I &apos;ve seen in my class was not from the assignments with a long deadline , but from the 40- to 60-minute crazy writing students did in front of me with a pencil .
The students go into a kind of trance .
After 30 or 40 minutes , they write without knowing what they &apos;re writing .
And in this moment , the nagging devil disappears .
So I can say this : It &apos;s not the hundreds of reasons why one can &apos;t be an artist , but rather , the one reason one must be that makes us artists .
Why we cannot be something is not important .
Most artists became artists because of the one reason .
When we put the devil in our heart to sleep and start our own art , enemies appear on the outside .
Mostly , they have the faces of our parents . ( Laughter ) Sometimes they look like our spouses , but they are not your parents or spouses .
They are devils . Devils .
They came to Earth briefly transformed to stop you from being artistic , from becoming artists .
And they have a magic question .
When we say , &quot; &quot; I think I &apos;ll try acting . There &apos;s a drama school in the community center , &quot; &quot; or &quot; I &apos;d like to learn Italian songs , &quot; they ask , &quot; Oh , yeah ? A play ? What for ? &quot;
The magic question is , &quot; &quot; What for ? &quot; &quot; But art is not for anything .
Art is the ultimate goal .
It saves our souls and makes us live happily .
It helps us express ourselves and be happy without the help of alcohol or drugs .
So in response to such a pragmatic question , we need to be bold .
&quot; Well , just for the fun of it . Sorry for having fun without you , &quot; is what you should say . &quot; &quot; I &apos;ll just go ahead and do it anyway . &quot; &quot; The ideal future I imagine is where we all have multiple identities , at least one of which is an artist .
Once I was in New York and got in a cab . I took the backseat , and in front of me I saw something related to a play .
So I asked the driver , &quot; &quot; What is this ? &quot; &quot; He said it was his profile . &quot; &quot; Then what are you ? &quot; &quot; I asked . &quot; &quot; An actor , &quot; &quot; he said .
He was a cabby and an actor . I asked , &quot; &quot; What roles do you usually play ? &quot; &quot; He proudly said he played King Lear . King Lear .
&quot; &quot; Who is it that can tell me who I am ? &quot; &quot; — a great line from King Lear . That &apos;s the world I dream of . Someone is a golfer by day and writer by night . Or a cabby and an actor , a banker and a painter ,
secretly or publicly performing their own arts .
In 1990 , Martha Graham , the legend of modern dance , came to Korea .
The great artist , then in her 90s , arrived at Gimpo Airport and a reporter asked her a typical question : &quot; &quot; What do you have to do to become a great dancer ?
Any advice for aspiring Korean dancers ? &quot; &quot; Now , she was the master . This photo was taken in 1948 and she was already a celebrated artist .
In 1990 , she was asked this question .
And here &apos;s what she answered : &quot; Just do it . &quot;
Wow . I was touched .
Only those three words and she left the airport . That &apos;s it .
So what should we do now ?
Let &apos;s be artists , right now . Right away . How ?
Just do it !
Thank you .
( Applause )
Thank you very much , Chris . Everybody who came up here said they were scared . I don &apos;t know if I &apos;m scared , but this is my first time of addressing an audience like this .
And I don &apos;t have any smart technology for you to look at .
There are no slides , so you &apos;ll just have to be content with me .
( Laughter ) What I want to do this morning is share with you a couple of stories and talk about a different Africa .
Already this morning there were some allusions to the Africa that you hear about all the time : the Africa of HIV / AIDS , the Africa of malaria , the Africa of poverty , the Africa of conflict , and the Africa of disasters .
While it is true that those things are going on , there &apos;s an Africa that you don &apos;t hear about very much .
And sometimes I &apos;m puzzled , and I ask myself why .
This is the Africa that is changing , that Chris alluded to .
This is the Africa of opportunity .
This is the Africa where people want to take charge of their own futures and their own destinies .
And this is the Africa where people are looking for partnerships to do this . That &apos;s what I want to talk about today .
And I want to start by telling you a story about that change in Africa .
On 15th of September 2005 , Mr. Diepreye Alamieyeseigha , a governor of one of the oil-rich states of Nigeria , was arrested by the London Metropolitan Police on a visit to London .
He was arrested because there were transfers of eight million dollars that went into some dormant accounts that belonged to him and his family .
This arrest occurred because there was cooperation between the London Metropolitan Police and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission of Nigeria — led by one of our most able and courageous people : Mr. Nuhu Ribadu .
Alamieyeseigha was arraigned in London .
Due to some slip-ups , he managed to escape dressed as a woman and ran from London back to Nigeria where , according to our constitution , those in office as governors , president — as in many countries — have immunity and cannot be prosecuted . But what happened : people were so outraged by this behavior that it was possible for his state legislature to impeach him and get him out of office .
Today , Alams — as we call him for short — is in jail .
This is a story about the fact that people in Africa are no longer willing to tolerate corruption from their leaders .
This is a story about the fact that people want their resources managed properly for their good , and not taken out to places where they &apos;ll benefit just a few of the elite .
And therefore , when you hear about the corrupt Africa — corruption all the time — I want you to know that the people and the governments are trying hard to fight this in some of the countries , and that some successes are emerging .
Does it mean the problem is over ? The answer is no .
There &apos;s still a long way to go , but that there &apos;s a will there .
And that successes are being chalked up on this very important fight .
So when you hear about corruption , don &apos;t just feel that nothing is being done about this — that you can &apos;t operate in any African country because of the overwhelming corruption . That is not the case .
There &apos;s a will to fight , and in many countries , that fight is ongoing and is being won . In others , like mine , where there has been a long history of dictatorship in Nigeria , the fight is ongoing and we have a long way to go .
But the truth of the matter is that this is going on .
The results are showing : independent monitoring by the World Bank and other organizations show that in many instances the trend is downwards in terms of corruption , and governance is improving .
A study by the Economic Commission for Africa showed a clear trend upwards in governance in 28 African countries .
And let me say just one more thing before I leave this area of governance .
That is that people talk about corruption , corruption .
All the time when they talk about it you immediately think about Africa .
That &apos;s the image : African countries . But let me say this : if Alams was able to export eight million dollars into an account in London — if the other people who had taken money , estimated at 20 to 40 billion now of developing countries &apos; monies sitting abroad in the developed countries — if they &apos;re able to do this , what is that ? Is that not corruption ?
In this country , if you receive stolen goods , are you not prosecuted ?
So when we talk about this kind of corruption , let us also think about what is happening on the other side of the globe — where the money &apos;s going and what can be done to stop it .
I &apos;m working on an initiative now , along with the World Bank , on asset recovery , trying to do what we can to get the monies that have been taken abroad — developing countries &apos; moneys — to get that sent back .
Because if we can get the 20 billion dollars sitting out there back , it may be far more for some of these countries than all the aid that is being put together .
( Applause ) The second thing I want to talk about is the will for reform .
Africans , after — they &apos;re tired , we &apos;re tired of being the subject of everybody &apos;s charity and care .
We are grateful , but we know that we can take charge of our own destinies if we have the will to reform .
And what is happening in many African countries now is a realization that no one can do it but us . We have to do it .
We can invite partners who can support us , but we have to start .
We have to reform our economies , change our leadership , become more democratic , be more open to change and to information .
And this is what we started to do in one of the largest countries on the continent , Nigeria .
In fact , if you &apos;re not in Nigeria , you &apos;re not in Africa .
I want to tell you that .
( Laughter ) One in four sub-Saharan Africans is Nigerian , and it has 140 million dynamic people — chaotic people — but very interesting people . You &apos;ll never be bored . ( Laughter )
What we started to do was to realize that we had to take charge and reform ourselves .
And with the support of a leader who was willing , at the time , to do the reforms , we put forward a comprehensive reform program , which we developed ourselves .
Not the International Monetary Fund . Not the World Bank , where I worked for 21 years and rose to be a vice president .
No one can do it for you . You have to do it for yourself .
We put together a program that would , one : get the state out of businesses it had nothing — it had no business being in .
The state should not be in the business of producing goods and services because it &apos;s inefficient and incompetent .
So we decided to privatize many of our enterprises .
( Applause ) We — as a result , we decided to liberalize many of our markets .
Can you believe that prior to this reform — which started at the end of 2003 , when I left Washington to go and take up the post of Finance Minister — we had a telecommunications company that was only able to develop 4,500 landlines in its entire 30-year history ?
( Laughter ) Having a telephone in my country was a huge luxury .
You couldn &apos;t get it . You had to bribe .
You had to do everything to get your phone .
When President Obasanjo supported and launched the liberalization of the telecommunications sector , we went from 4,500 landlines to 32 million GSM lines , and counting .
Nigeria &apos;s telecoms market is the second-fastest growing in the world , after China . We are getting investments of about a billion dollars a year in telecoms . And nobody knows , except a few smart people .
( Laughter ) The smartest one , first to come in , was the MTN company of South Africa .
And in the three years that I was Finance Minister , they made an average of 360 million dollars profit per year .
360 million in a market — in a country that is a poor country , with an average per capita income just under 500 dollars per capita .
So the market is there .
When they kept this under wraps , but soon others got to know .
Nigerians themselves began to develop some wireless telecommunications companies , and three or four others have come in .
But there &apos;s a huge market out there , and people don &apos;t know about it , or they don &apos;t want to know .
So privatization is one of the things we &apos;ve done .
The other thing we &apos;ve also done is to manage our finances better .
Because nobody &apos;s going to help you and support you if you &apos;re not managing your own finances well .
And Nigeria , with the oil sector , had the reputation of being corrupt and not managing its own public finances well .
So what did we try to do ? We introduced a fiscal rule that de-linked our budget from the oil price .
Before we used to just budget on whatever oil we bring in , because oil is the biggest , most revenue-earning sector in the economy : 70 percent of our revenues come from oil .
We de-linked that , and once we did it , we began to budget at a price slightly lower than the oil price and save whatever was above that price .
We didn &apos;t know we could pull it off ; it was very controversial .
But what it immediately did was that the volatility that had been present in terms of our economic development — where , even if oil prices were high , we would grow very fast .
When they crashed , we crashed .
And we could hardly even pay anything , any salaries , in the economy .
That smoothened out . We were able to save , just before I left , 27 billion dollars . Whereas — and this went to our reserves — when I arrived in 2003 , we had seven billion dollars in reserves .
By the time I left , we had gone up to almost 30 billion dollars . And as we speak now , we have about 40 billion dollars in reserves due to proper management of our finances .
And that shores up our economy , makes it stable .
Our exchange rate that used to fluctuate all the time is now fairly stable and being managed so that business people have a predictability of prices in the economy .
We brought inflation down from 28 percent to about 11 percent .
And we had GDP grow from an average of 2.3 percent the previous decade to about 6.5 percent now .
So all the changes and reforms we were able to make have shown up in results that are measurable in the economy .
And what is more important , because we want to get away from oil and diversify — and there are so many opportunities in this one big country , as in many countries in Africa — what was remarkable is that much of this growth came not from the oil sector alone , but from non-oil .
Agriculture grew at better than eight percent .
As telecoms sector grew , housing and construction , and I could go on and on . And this is to illustrate to you that once you get the macro-economy straightened out , the opportunities in various other sectors are enormous .
We have opportunities in agriculture , like I said .
We have opportunities in solid minerals . We have a lot of minerals that no one has even invested in or explored . And we realized that without the proper legislation to make that possible , that wouldn &apos;t happen . So we &apos;ve now got a mining code that is comparable with some of the best in the world .
We have opportunities in housing and real estate .
There was nothing in a country of 140 million people — no shopping malls as you know them here .
This was an investment opportunity for someone that excited the imagination of people .
And now , we have a situation in which the businesses in this mall are doing four times the turnover that they had projected .
So , huge things in construction , real estate , mortgage markets . Financial services : we had 89 banks . Too many not doing their real business .
We consolidated them from 89 to 25 banks by requiring that they increase their capital — share capital .
And it went from about 25 million dollars to 150 million dollars .
The banks — these banks are now consolidated , and that strengthening of the banking system has attracted a lot of investment from outside .
Barclays Bank of the U.K. is bringing in 500 million .
Standard Chartered has brought in 140 million .
And I can go on . Dollars , on and on , into the system .
We are doing the same with the insurance sector .
So in financial services , a great deal of opportunity .
In tourism , in many African countries , a great opportunity .
And that &apos;s what many people know East Africa for : the wildlife , the elephants , and so on .
But managing the tourism market in a way that can really benefit the people is very important .
So what am I trying to say ? I &apos;m trying to tell you that there &apos;s a new wave on the continent .
A new wave of openness and democratization in which , since 2000 , more than two-thirds of African countries have had multi-party democratic elections .
Not all of them have been perfect , or will be , but the trend is very clear .
I &apos;m trying to tell you that since the past three years , the average rate of growth on the continent has moved from about 2.5 percent to about five percent per annum .
This is better than the performance of many OECD countries .
So it &apos;s clear that things are changing .
Conflicts are down on the continent ; from about 12 conflicts a decade ago , we are down to three or four conflicts — one of the most terrible , of course , of which is Darfur .
And , you know , you have the neighborhood effect where if something is going on in one part of the continent , it looks like the entire continent is affected .
But you should know that this continent is not — is a continent of many countries , not one country .
And if we are down to three or four conflicts , it means that there are plenty of opportunities to invest in stable , growing , exciting economies where there &apos;s plenty of opportunity .
And I want to just make one point about this investment .
The best way to help Africans today is to help them to stand on their own feet .
And the best way to do that is by helping create jobs .
There &apos;s no issue with fighting malaria and putting money in that and saving children &apos;s lives . That &apos;s not what I &apos;m saying . That is fine .
But imagine the impact on a family : if the parents can be employed and make sure that their children go to school , that they can buy the drugs to fight the disease themselves .
If we can invest in places where you yourselves make money whilst creating jobs and helping people stand on their own feet , isn &apos;t that a wonderful opportunity ? Isn &apos;t that the way to go ?
And I want to say that some of the best people to invest in on the continent are the women .
( Applause ) I have a CD here . I &apos;m sorry that I didn &apos;t say anything on time .
Otherwise , I would have liked you to have seen this .
It says , &quot; &quot; Africa : Open for Business . &quot; &quot; And this is a video that has actually won an award as the best documentary of the year .
Understand that the woman who made it is going to be in Tanzania , where they &apos;re having the session in June .
But it shows you Africans , and particularly African women , who against all odds have developed businesses , some of them world-class .
One of the women in this video , Adenike Ogunlesi , making children &apos;s clothes — which she started as a hobby and grew into a business .
Mixing African materials , such as we have , with materials from elsewhere .
So , she &apos;ll make a little pair of dungarees with corduroys , with African material mixed in . Very creative designs , has reached a stage where she even had an order from Wal-Mart .
( Laughter ) For 10,000 pieces .
So that shows you that we have people who are capable of doing .
And the women are diligent . They are focused ; they work hard .
I could go on giving examples : Beatrice Gakuba of Rwanda , who opened up a flower business and is now exporting to the Dutch auction in Amsterdam each morning and is employing 200 other women and men to work with her .
However , many of these are starved for capital to expand , because nobody believes outside of our countries that we can do what is necessary . Nobody thinks in terms of a market .
Nobody thinks there &apos;s opportunity .
But I &apos;m standing here saying that those who miss the boat now , will miss it forever .
So if you want to be in Africa , think about investing .
Think about the Beatrices , think about the Adenikes of this world , who are doing incredible things , that are bringing them into the global economy , whilst at the same time making sure that their fellow men and women are employed , and that the children in those households get educated because their parents are earning adequate income .
So I invite you to explore the opportunities .
When you go to Tanzania , listen carefully , because I &apos;m sure you will hear of the various openings that there will be for you to get involved in something that will do good for the continent , for the people and for yourselves .
Thank you very much .
( Applause )
So this is James Risen .
You may know him as the Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter for The New York Times .
Long before anybody knew Edward Snowden &apos;s name , Risen wrote a book in which he famously exposed that the NSA was illegally wiretapping the phone calls of Americans .
But it &apos;s another chapter in that book that may have an even more lasting impact .
In it , he describes a catastrophic US intelligence operation in which the CIA quite literally handed over blueprints of a nuclear bomb to Iran .
If that sounds crazy , go read it .
It &apos;s an incredible story .
But you know who didn &apos;t like that chapter ?
The US government .
For nearly a decade afterwards , Risen was the subject of a US government investigation in which prosecutors demanded that he testify against one of his alleged sources .
And along the way , he became the face for the US government &apos;s recent pattern of prosecuting whistleblowers and spying on journalists .
You see , under the First Amendment , the press has the right to publish secret information in the public interest .
But it &apos;s impossible to exercise that right if the media can &apos;t also gather that news and protect the identities of the brave men and women who get it to them .
So when the government came knocking , Risen did what many brave reporters have done before him : he refused and said he &apos;d rather go to jail .
So from 2007 to 2015 , Risen lived under the specter of going to federal prison .
That is , until just days before the trial , when a curious thing happened .
Suddenly , after years of claiming it was vital to their case , the government dropped their demands to Risen altogether .
It turns out , in the age of electronic surveillance , there are very few places reporters and sources can hide .
And instead of trying and failing to have Risen testify , they could have his digital trail testify against him instead .
So completely in secret and without his consent , prosecutors got Risen &apos;s phone records .
They got his email records , his financial and banking information , his credit reports , even travel records with a list of flights he had taken .
And it was among this information that they used to convict Jeffrey Sterling , Risen &apos;s alleged source and CIA whistleblower .
Sadly , this is only one case of many .
President Obama ran on a promise to protect whistleblowers , and instead , his Justice Department has prosecuted more than all other administrations combined .
Now , you can see how this could be a problem , especially because the government considers so much of what it does secret .
Since 9 / 11 , virtually every important story about national security has been the result of a whistleblower coming to a journalist .
So we risk seeing the press unable to do their job that the First Amendment is supposed to protect because of the government &apos;s expanded ability to spy on everyone .
But just as technology has allowed the government to circumvent reporters &apos; rights , the press can also use technology to protect their sources even better than before .
And they can start from the moment they begin speaking with them , rather than on the witness stand after the fact .
Communications software now exists that wasn &apos;t available when Risen was writing his book , and is much more surveillance-resistant than regular emails or phone calls .
For example , one such tool is SecureDrop , an open-source whistleblower submission system that was originally created by the late Internet luminary Aaron Swartz , and is now developed at the non-profit where I work , Freedom of the Press Foundation .
Instead of sending an email , you go to a news organization &apos;s website , like this one here on The Washington Post .
From there , you can upload a document or send information much like you would on any other contact form .
It &apos;ll then be encrypted and stored on a server that only the news organization has access to .
So the government can no longer secretly demand the information , and much of the information they would demand wouldn &apos;t be available in the first place .
SecureDrop , though , is really only a small part of the puzzle for protecting press freedom in the 21st century .
Unfortunately , governments all over the world are constantly developing new spying techniques that put us all at risk .
And it &apos;s up to us going forward to make sure that it &apos;s not just the tech-savvy whistleblowers , like Edward Snowden , who have an avenue for exposing wrongdoing .
It &apos;s just as vital that we protect the next veteran &apos;s health care whistleblower alerting us to overcrowded hospitals , or the next environmental worker sounding the alarm about Flint &apos;s dirty water , or a Wall Street insider warning us of the next financial crisis .
After all , these tools weren &apos;t just built to help the brave men and women who expose crimes , but are meant to protect all of our rights under the Constitution .
Thank you .
( Applause )
( Music ) ( Applause ) Thank you .
Hi , everybody .
Ban-gap-seum-ni-da .
I &apos;d like to share with you a little bit of me playing my life .
I might look successful and happy being in front of you today , but I once suffered from severe depression and was in total despair .
The violin , which meant everything to me , became a grave burden on me .
Although many people tried to comfort and encourage me , their words sounded like meaningless noise .
When I was just about to give everything up after years of suffering , I started to rediscover the true power of music .
( Music ) In the midst of hardship , it was the music that gave me — that restored my soul .
The comfort the music gave me was just indescribable , and it was a real eye-opening experience for me too , and it totally changed my perspective on life and set me free from the pressure of becoming a successful violinist .
Do you feel like you are all alone ?
I hope that this piece will touch and heal your heart , as it did for me .
( Music ) ( Applause ) Thank you .
Now , I use my music to reach people &apos;s hearts and have found there are no boundaries .
My audience is anyone who is here to listen , even those who are not familiar with classical music .
I not only play at the prestigious classical concert halls like Carnegie Hall and Kennedy Center , but also hospitals , churches , prisons , and restricted facilities for leprosy patients , just to mention a few .
Now , with my last piece , I &apos;d like to show you that classical music can be so much fun , exciting , and that it can rock you .
Let me introduce you to my brand new project , &quot; Baroque in Rock , &quot; which became a golden disc most recently .
It &apos;s such an honor for me .
I think , while I &apos;m enjoying my life as a happy musician , I &apos;m earning a lot more recognition than I &apos;ve ever imagined .
But it &apos;s now your turn .
Changing your perspectives will not only transform you but also the whole world .
Just play your life with all you have , and share it with the world .
I really look forward to witnessing a transforming world by you , TEDsters .
Play your life , and stay tuned .
( Music ) ( Applause )
I &apos;ve noticed something interesting about society and culture .
Everything risky requires a license .
So , learning to drive , owning a gun , getting married .
There &apos;s a certain — ( Laughter ) That &apos;s true in everything risky , except technology .
For some reason , there &apos;s no standard syllabus , there &apos;s no basic course .
They just sort of give you your computer and then kick you out of the nest .
You &apos;re supposed to learn this stuff — how ?
Just by osmosis .
Nobody ever sits down and tells you , &quot; &quot; This is how it works . &quot; &quot; So today I &apos;m going to tell you ten things that you thought everybody knew , but it turns out they don &apos;t .
First of all , on the web , if you want to scroll down , don &apos;t pick up the mouse and use the scroll bar .
That &apos;s a terrible waste of time .
Do that only if you &apos;re paid by the hour .
Instead , hit the space bar .
The space bar scrolls down one page .
Hold down the Shift key to scroll back up again .
So , space bar to scroll down one page ; works in every browser , in every kind of computer .
Also on the web , when you &apos;re filling in one of these forms like your addresses , I assume you know that you can hit the Tab key to jump from box to box to box .
But what about the pop-up menu where you put in your state ?
Don &apos;t open the pop-up menu .
That &apos;s a terrible waste of calories .
Type the first letter of your state over and over and over .
So if you want Connecticut , go , C , C , C.
If you want Texas , go T , T , and you jump right to that thing without even opening the pop-up menu .
Also on the web , when the text is too small , what you do is hold down the Control key and hit plus , plus , plus .
You make the text larger with each tap .
Works on every computer , every web browser , or minus , minus , to get smaller again .
If you &apos;re on the Mac , it might be Command instead .
When you &apos;re typing on your Blackberry , Android , iPhone , don &apos;t bother switching layouts to the punctuation layout to hit the period and then a space , then try to capitalize the next letter .
Just hit the space bar twice .
The phone puts the period , the space , and the capital for you .
Go space , space .
It is totally amazing .
Also when it comes to cell phones , on all phones , if you want to redial somebody that you &apos;ve dialed before , all you have to do is hit the call button , and it puts the last phone number into the box for you , and at that point you can hit call again to actually dial it .
No need to go to the recent calls list if you &apos;re trying to call somebody just hit the call button again .
Something that drives me crazy : When I call you and leave a message on your voice mail , I hear you saying , &quot; &quot; Leave a message , &quot; &quot; and then I get these 15 seconds of freaking instructions , like we haven &apos;t had answering machines for 45 years !
( Laughter ) I &apos;m not bitter . ( Laughter )
So it turns out there &apos;s a keyboard shortcut that lets you jump directly to the beep like this .
Phone : At the tone , please ...
( Beep ) David Pogue : Unfortunately , the carriers didn &apos;t adopt the same keystroke , so it &apos;s different by carrier , so it devolves upon you to learn the keystroke for the person you &apos;re calling .
I didn &apos;t say these were going to be perfect .
So most of you think of Google as something that lets you look up a web page , but it is also a dictionary .
Type the word &quot; &quot; define &quot; &quot; and the word you want to know .
You don &apos;t even have to click anything .
There &apos;s the definition as you type .
It &apos;s also a complete FAA database .
Type the name of the airline and the flight .
It shows you where the flight is , the gate , the terminal , how long until it lands .
You don &apos;t need an app .
It &apos;s also unit and currency conversion .
Again , you don &apos;t have to click one of the results .
Just type it into the box , and there &apos;s your answer .
While we &apos;re talking about text — When you want to highlight — this is just an example — ( Laughter ) When you want to highlight a word , please don &apos;t waste your life dragging across it with the mouse like a newbie .
Double click the word .
Watch &quot; &quot; 200 &quot; &quot; — I go double-click , it neatly selects just that word .
Also , don &apos;t delete what you &apos;ve highlighted .
You can just type over it .
This is in every program .
Also , you can go double-click , drag , to highlight in one-word increments as you drag .
Much more precise .
Again , don &apos;t bother deleting .
Just type over it .
( Laughter ) Shutter lag is the time between your pressing the shutter button and the moment the camera actually snaps .
It &apos;s extremely frustrating on any camera under $ 1,000 .
( Camera click ) ( Laughter ) So , that &apos;s because the camera needs time to calculate the focus and exposure , but if you pre-focus with a half-press , leave your finger down — no shutter lag !
You get it every time .
I &apos;ve just turned your $ 50 camera into a $ 1,000 camera with that trick .
And finally , it often happens that you &apos;re giving a talk , and for some reason , the audience is looking at the slide instead of at you !
( Laughter ) So when that happens — this works in Keynote , PowerPoint , it works in every program — all you do is hit the letter B key , B for blackout , to black out the slide , make everybody look at you , and then when you &apos;re ready to go on , you hit B again , and if you &apos;re really on a roll , you can hit the W key for &quot; &quot; whiteout , &quot; &quot; and you white out the slide , and then you can hit W again to un-blank it .
So I know I went super fast .
If you missed anything , I &apos;ll be happy to send you the list of these tips .
In the meantime , congratulations .
You all get your California Technology License .
Have a great day .
( Applause )
I grew up in New York City , between Harlem and the Bronx .
Growing up as a boy , we were taught that men had to be tough , had to be strong , had to be courageous , dominating — no pain , no emotions , with the exception of anger — and definitely no fear ; that men are in charge , which means women are not ; that men lead , and you should just follow and do what we say ; that men are superior ; women are inferior ; that men are strong ; women are weak ; that women are of less value , property of men , and objects , particularly sexual objects .
I &apos;ve later come to know that to be the collective socialization of men , better known as the &quot; &quot; man box . &quot; &quot; See this man box has in it all the ingredients of how we define what it means to be a man .
Now I also want to say , without a doubt , there are some wonderful , wonderful , absolutely wonderful things about being a man .
But at the same time , there &apos;s some stuff that &apos;s just straight up twisted , and we really need to begin to challenge , look at it and really get in the process of deconstructing , redefining , what we come to know as manhood .
This is my two at home , Kendall and Jay .
They &apos;re 11 and 12 .
Kendall &apos;s 15 months older than Jay .
There was a period of time when my wife — her name is Tammie — and I , we just got real busy and whip , bam , boom : Kendall and Jay .
( Laughter ) And when they were about five and six , four and five , Jay could come to me , come to me crying .
It didn &apos;t matter what she was crying about , she could get on my knee , she could snot my sleeve up , just cry , cry it out .
Daddy &apos;s got you . That &apos;s all that &apos;s important .
Now Kendall on the other hand — and like I said , he &apos;s only 15 months older than her — he &apos;d come to me crying , it &apos;s like as soon as I would hear him cry , a clock would go off .
I would give the boy probably about 30 seconds , which means , by the time he got to me , I was already saying things like , &quot; &quot; Why are you crying ?
Hold your head up . Look at me .
Explain to me what &apos;s wrong .
Tell me what &apos;s wrong . I can &apos;t understand you .
Why are you crying ? &quot; &quot; And out of my own frustration of my role and responsibility of building him up as a man to fit into these guidelines and these structures that are defining this man box , I would find myself saying things like , &quot; &quot; Just go in your room .
Just go on , go on in your room .
Sit down , get yourself together and come back and talk to me when you can talk to me like a — &quot; &quot; what ?
( Audience : Man . ) Like a man .
And he &apos;s five years old .
And as I grow in life , I would say to myself , &quot; &quot; My God , what &apos;s wrong with me ?
What am I doing ? Why would I do this ? &quot; &quot; And I think back .
I think back to my father .
There was a time in my life where we had a very troubled experience in our family .
My brother , Henry , he died tragically when we were teenagers .
We lived in New York City , as I said .
We lived in the Bronx at the time , and the burial was in a place called Long Island , it was about two hours outside of the city .
And as we were preparing to come back from the burial , the cars stopped at the bathroom to let folks take care of themselves before the long ride back to the city .
And the limousine empties out .
My mother , my sister , my auntie , they all get out , but my father and I stayed in the limousine , and no sooner than the women got out , he burst out crying .
He didn &apos;t want cry in front of me , but he knew he wasn &apos;t going to make it back to the city , and it was better me than to allow himself to express these feelings and emotions in front of the women .
And this is a man who , 10 minutes ago , had just put his teenage son in the ground — something I just can &apos;t even imagine .
The thing that sticks with me the most is that he was apologizing to me for crying in front of me , and at the same time , he was also giving me props , lifting me up , for not crying .
I come to also look at this as this fear that we have as men , this fear that just has us paralyzed , holding us hostage to this man box .
I can remember speaking to a 12-year-old boy , a football player , and I asked him , I said , &quot; &quot; How would you feel if , in front of all the players , your coach told you you were playing like a girl ? &quot; &quot; Now I expected him to say something like , I &apos;d be sad ; I &apos;d be mad ; I &apos;d be angry , or something like that .
No , the boy said to me — the boy said to me , &quot; It would destroy me . &quot;
And I said to myself , &quot; &quot; God , if it would destroy him to be called a girl , what are we then teaching him about girls ? &quot; &quot; ( Applause ) It took me back to a time when I was about 12 years old .
I grew up in tenement buildings in the inner city .
At this time we &apos;re living in the Bronx , and in the building next to where I lived there was a guy named Johnny .
He was about 16 years old , and we were all about 12 years old — younger guys .
And he was hanging out with all us younger guys .
And this guy , he was up to a lot of no good .
He was the kind of kid who parents would have to wonder , &quot; What is this 16-year-old boy doing with these 12-year-old boys ? &quot;
And he did spend a lot of time up to no good .
He was a troubled kid .
His mother had died from a heroin overdose .
He was being raised by his grandmother .
His father wasn &apos;t on the set .
His grandmother had two jobs .
He was home alone a lot .
But I &apos;ve got to tell you , we young guys , we looked up to this dude , man .
He was cool . He was fine .
That &apos;s what the sisters said , &quot; &quot; He was fine . &quot; &quot; He was having sex .
We all looked up to him .
So one day , I &apos;m out in front of the house doing something — just playing around , doing something — I don &apos;t know what .
He looks out his window ; he calls me upstairs ; he said , &quot; &quot; Hey Anthony . &quot; &quot; They called me Anthony growing up as a kid .
&quot; Hey Anthony , come on upstairs . &quot;
Johnny call , you go .
So I run right upstairs .
As he opens the door , he says to me , &quot; &quot; Do you want some ? &quot; &quot; Now I immediately knew what he meant .
Because for me growing up at that time , and our relationship with this man box , &quot; &quot; Do you want some ? &quot; &quot; meant one of two things : sex or drugs — and we weren &apos;t doing drugs .
Now my box , my card , my man box card , was immediately in jeopardy .
Two things : One , I never had sex .
We don &apos;t talk about that as men .
You only tell your dearest , closest friend , sworn to secrecy for life , the first time you had sex .
For everybody else , we go around like we &apos;ve been having sex since we were two .
There ain &apos;t no first time .
( Laughter ) The other thing I couldn &apos;t tell him is that I didn &apos;t want any .
That &apos;s even worse . We &apos;re supposed to always be on the prowl .
Women are objects , especially sexual objects .
Anyway , so I couldn &apos;t tell him any of that .
So , like my mother would say , make a long story short , I just simply said to Johnny , &quot; &quot; Yes . &quot; &quot; He told me to go in his room .
I go in his room . On his bed is a girl from the neighborhood named Sheila .
She &apos;s 16 years old .
She &apos;s nude .
She &apos;s what I know today to be mentally ill , higher-functioning at times than others .
We had a whole choice of inappropriate names for her .
Anyway , Johnny had just gotten through having sex with her .
Well actually , he raped her , but he would say he had sex with her .
Because , while Sheila never said no , she also never said yes .
So he was offering me the opportunity to do the same .
So when I go in the room , I close the door .
Folks , I &apos;m petrified .
I stand with my back to the door so Johnny can &apos;t bust in the room and see that I &apos;m not doing anything , and I stand there long enough that I could have actually done something .
So now I &apos;m no longer trying to figure out what I &apos;m going to do ; I &apos;m trying to figure out how I &apos;m going to get out of this room .
So in my 12 years of wisdom , I zip my pants down , I walk out into the room , and lo and behold to me , while I was in the room with Sheila , Johnny was back at the window calling guys up .
So now there &apos;s a living room full of guys .
It was like the waiting room in the doctor &apos;s office .
And they asked me how was it , and I say to them , &quot; &quot; It was good , &quot; &quot; and I zip my pants up in front of them , and I head for the door .
Now I say this all with remorse , and I was feeling a tremendous amount of remorse at that time , but I was conflicted , because , while I was feeling remorse , I was excited , because I didn &apos;t get caught .
But I knew I felt bad about what was happening .
This fear , getting outside the man box , totally enveloped me .
It was way more important to me , about me and my man box card than about Sheila and what was happening to her .
See collectively , we as men are taught to have less value in women , to view them as property and the objects of men .
We see that as an equation that equals violence against women .
We as men , good men , the large majority of men , we operate on the foundation of this whole collective socialization .
We kind of see ourselves separate , but we &apos;re very much a part of it .
You see , we have to come to understand that less value , property and objectification is the foundation and the violence can &apos;t happen without it .
So we &apos;re very much a part of the solution as well as the problem .
The center for disease control says that men &apos;s violence against women is at epidemic proportions , is the number one health concern for women in this country and abroad .
So quickly , I &apos;d like to just say , this is the love of my life , my daughter Jay .
The world I envision for her — how do I want men to be acting and behaving ?
I need you on board . I need you with me .
I need you working with me and me working with you on how we raise our sons and teach them to be men — that it &apos;s okay to not be dominating , that it &apos;s okay to have feelings and emotions , that it &apos;s okay to promote equality , that it &apos;s okay to have women who are just friends and that &apos;s it , that it &apos;s okay to be whole , that my liberation as a man is tied to your liberation as a woman . ( Applause ) I remember asking a nine-year-old boy , I asked a nine-year-old boy , &quot; &quot; What would life be like for you , if you didn &apos;t have to adhere to this man box ? &quot; &quot;
He said to me , &quot; &quot; I would be free . &quot; &quot; Thank you folks .
( Applause )
It &apos;s a great honor today to share with you The Digital Universe , which was created for humanity to really see where we are in the universe .
And so I think we can roll the video that we have .
&#91; The Himalayas . &#93; ( Music ) The flat horizon that we &apos;ve evolved with has been a metaphor for the infinite : unbounded resources and unlimited capacity for disposal of waste .
It wasn &apos;t until we really left Earth , got above the atmosphere and had seen the horizon bend back on itself , that we could understand our planet as a limited condition .
The Digital Universe Atlas has been built at the American Museum of Natural History over the past 12 years .
We maintain that , put that together as a project to really chart the universe across all scales .
What we see here are satellites around the Earth and the Earth in proper registration against the universe , as we see .
NASA supported this work 12 years ago as part of the rebuilding of the Hayden Planetarium so that we would share this with the world .
The Digital Universe is the basis of our space show productions that we do — our main space shows in the dome .
But what you see here is the result of , actually , internships that we hosted with Linkoping University in Sweden .
I &apos;ve had 12 students work on this for their graduate work , and the result has been this software called Uniview and a company called SCISS in Sweden .
This software allows interactive use , so this actual flight path and movie that we see here was actually flown live .
I captured this live from my laptop in a cafe called Earth Matters on the Lower East Side of Manhattan , where I live , and it was done as a collaborative project with the Rubin Museum of Himalayan Art for an exhibit on comparative cosmology .
And so as we move out , we see continuously from our planet all the way out into the realm of galaxies , as we see here , light-travel time , giving you a sense of how far away we are .
As we move out , the light from these distant galaxies have taken so long , we &apos;re essentially backing up into the past .
We back so far up we &apos;re finally seeing a containment around us — the afterglow of the Big Bang .
This is the WMAP microwave background that we see .
We &apos;ll fly outside it here , just to see this sort of containment .
If we were outside this , it would almost be meaningless , in the sense as before time .
But this our containment of the visible universe .
We know the universe is bigger than that which we can see .
Coming back quickly , we see here the radio sphere that we jumped out of in the beginning , but these are positions , the latest positions of exoplanets that we &apos;ve mapped , and our sun here , obviously , with our own solar system .
What you &apos;re going to see — we &apos;re going to have to jump in here pretty quickly between several orders of magnitude to get down to where we see the solar system — these are the paths of Voyager 1 , Voyager 2 , Pioneer 11 and Pioneer 10 , the first four spacecraft to have left the solar system .
Coming in closer , picking up Earth , orbit of the Moon , and we see the Earth .
This map can be updated , and we can add in new data .
I know Dr. Carolyn Porco is the camera P.I.
for the Cassini mission .
But here we see the complex trajectory of the Cassini mission color coded for different mission phases , ingeniously developed so that 45 encounters with the largest moon , Titan , which is larger that the planet Mercury , diverts the orbit into different parts of mission phase .
This software allows us to come close and look at parts of this .
This software can also be networked between domes .
We have a growing user base of this , and we network domes .
And we can network between domes and classrooms .
We &apos;re actually sharing tours of the universe with the first sub-Saharan planetarium in Ghana as well as new libraries that have been built in the ghettos in Columbia and a high school in Cambodia .
And the Cambodians have actually controlled the Hayden Planetarium from their high school .
This is an image from Saturday , photographed by the Aqua satellite , but through the Uniview software .
So you &apos;re seeing the edge of the Earth .
This is Nepal .
This is , in fact , right here is the valley of Lhasa , right here in Tibet .
But we can see the haze from fires and so forth in the Ganges valley down below in India .
This is Nepal and Tibet .
And just in closing , I &apos;d just like to say this beautiful world that we live on — here we see a bit of the snow that some of you may have had to brave in coming out — so I &apos;d like to just say that what the world needs now is a sense of being able to look at ourselves in this much larger condition now and a much larger sense of what home is .
Because our home is the universe , and we are the universe , essentially .
We carry that in us .
And to be able to see our context in this larger sense at all scales helps us all , I think , in understanding where we are and who we are in the universe .
Thank you .
( Applause )
I wanted to just start by asking everyone a question : How many of you are completely comfortable with calling yourselves a leader ?
There &apos;s a group of people in Kenya .
People cross oceans to go see them .
These people are tall .
They jump high . They wear red .
And they kill lions .
You might be wondering , who are these people ?
These are the Maasais .
And you know what &apos;s cool ? I &apos;m actually one of them .
The Maasais , the boys are brought up to be warriors .
The girls are brought up to be mothers .
When I was five years old , I found out that I was engaged to be married as soon as I reached puberty .
My mother , my grandmother , my aunties , they constantly reminded me that your husband just passed by .
( Laughter ) Cool , yeah ?
And everything I had to do from that moment was to prepare me to be a perfect woman at age 12 .
My day started at 5 in the morning , milking the cows , sweeping the house , cooking for my siblings , collecting water , firewood .
I did everything that I needed to do to become a perfect wife .
I went to school not because the Maasais &apos; women or girls were going to school .
It &apos;s because my mother was denied an education , and she constantly reminded me and my siblings that she never wanted us to live the life she was living .
Why did she say that ?
My father worked as a policeman in the city .
He came home once a year .
We didn &apos;t see him for sometimes even two years .
And whenever he came home , it was a different case .
My mother worked hard in the farm to grow crops so that we can eat .
She reared the cows and the goats so that she can care for us .
But when my father came , he would sell the cows , he would sell the products we had , and he went and drank with his friends in the bars .
Because my mother was a woman , she was not allowed to own any property , and by default , everything in my family anyway belongs to my father , so he had the right .
And if my mother ever questioned him , he beat her , abused her , and really it was difficult .
When I went to school , I had a dream .
I wanted to become a teacher .
Teachers looked nice .
They wear nice dresses , high-heeled shoes .
I found out later that they are uncomfortable , but I admired it .
( Laughter ) But most of all , the teacher was just writing on the board — not hard work , that &apos;s what I thought , compared to what I was doing in the farm .
So I wanted to become a teacher .
I worked hard in school , but when I was in eighth grade , it was a determining factor .
In our tradition , there is a ceremony that girls have to undergo to become women , and it &apos;s a rite of passage to womanhood .
And then I was just finishing my eighth grade , and that was a transition for me to go to high school .
This was the crossroad .
Once I go through this tradition , I was going to become a wife .
Well , my dream of becoming a teacher will not come to pass .
So I talked — I had to come up with a plan to figure these things out .
I talked to my father . I did something that most girls have never done .
I told my father , &quot; &quot; I will only go through this ceremony if you let me go back to school . &quot; &quot; The reason why , if I ran away , my father will have a stigma , people will be calling him the father of that girl who didn &apos;t go through the ceremony .
It was a shameful thing for him to carry the rest of his life .
So he figured out . &quot; &quot; Well , &quot; &quot; he said , &quot; &quot; okay , you &apos;ll go to school after the ceremony . &quot; &quot; I did . The ceremony happened .
It &apos;s a whole week long of excitement .
It &apos;s a ceremony . People are enjoying it .
And the day before the actual ceremony happens , we were dancing , having excitement , and through all the night we did not sleep .
The actual day came , and we walked out of the house that we were dancing in . Yes , we danced and danced .
We walked out to the courtyard , and there were a bunch of people waiting .
They were all in a circle .
And as we danced and danced , and we approached this circle of women , men , women , children , everybody was there .
There was a woman sitting in the middle of it , and this woman was waiting to hold us .
I was the first . There were my sisters and a couple of other girls , and as I approached her , she looked at me , and I sat down .
And I sat down , and I opened my legs .
As I opened my leg , another woman came , and this woman was carrying a knife .
And as she carried the knife , she walked toward me and she held the clitoris , and she cut it off .
As you can imagine , I bled . I bled .
After bleeding for a while , I fainted thereafter .
It &apos;s something that so many girls — I &apos;m lucky , I never died — but many die .
It &apos;s practiced , it &apos;s no anesthesia , it &apos;s a rusty old knife , and it was difficult .
I was lucky because one , also , my mom did something that most women don &apos;t do .
Three days later , after everybody has left the home , my mom went and brought a nurse .
We were taken care of .
Three weeks later , I was healed , and I was back in high school .
I was so determined to be a teacher now so that I could make a difference in my family .
Well , while I was in high school , something happened .
I met a young gentleman from our village who had been to the University of Oregon .
This man was wearing a white t-shirt , jeans , camera , white sneakers — and I &apos;m talking about white sneakers .
There is something about clothes , I think , and shoes .
They were sneakers , and this is in a village that doesn &apos;t even have paved roads . It was quite attractive .
I told him , &quot; &quot; Well , I want to go to where you are , &quot; &quot; because this man looked very happy , and I admired that .
And he told me , &quot; &quot; Well , what do you mean , you want to go ?
Don &apos;t you have a husband waiting for you ? &quot; &quot; And I told him , &quot; &quot; Don &apos;t worry about that part .
Just tell me how to get there . &quot; &quot; This gentleman , he helped me .
While I was in high school also , my dad was sick .
He got a stroke , and he was really , really sick , so he really couldn &apos;t tell me what to do next .
But the problem is , my father is not the only father I have .
Everybody who is my dad &apos;s age , male in the community , is my father by default — my uncles , all of them — and they dictate what my future is .
So the news came , I applied to school and I was accepted to Randolph-Macon Woman &apos;s College in Lynchburg , Virginia , and I couldn &apos;t come without the support of the village , because I needed to raise money to buy the air ticket .
I got a scholarship but I needed to get myself here .
But I needed the support of the village , and here again , when the men heard , and the people heard that a woman had gotten an opportunity to go to school , they said , &quot; &quot; What a lost opportunity .
This should have been given to a boy . We can &apos;t do this . &quot; &quot; So I went back and I had to go back to the tradition .
There &apos;s a belief among our people that morning brings good news .
So I had to come up with something to do with the morning , because there &apos;s good news in the morning .
And in the village also , there is one chief , an elder , who if he says yes , everybody will follow him .
So I went to him very early in the morning , as the sun rose .
The first thing he sees when he opens his door is , it &apos;s me .
&quot; My child , what are you doing here ? &quot;
&quot; Well , Dad , I need help . Can you support me to go to America ? &quot;
I promised him that I would be the best girl , I will come back , anything they wanted after that , I will do it for them .
He said , &quot; &quot; Well , but I can &apos;t do it alone . &quot; &quot; He gave me a list of another 15 men that I went — 16 more men — every single morning I went and visited them .
They all came together .
The village , the women , the men , everybody came together to support me to come to get an education .
I arrived in America . As you can imagine , what did I find ?
I found snow !
I found Wal-Marts , vacuum cleaners , and lots of food in the cafeteria .
I was in a land of plenty .
I enjoyed myself , but during that moment while I was here , I discovered a lot of things .
I learned that that ceremony that I went through when I was 13 years old , it was called female genital mutilation .
I learned that it was against the law in Kenya .
I learned that I did not have to trade part of my body to get an education . I had a right .
And as we speak right now , three million girls in Africa are at risk of going through this mutilation .
I learned that my mom had a right to own property .
I learned that she did not have to be abused because she is a woman .
Those things made me angry .
I wanted to do something .
As I went back , every time I went , I found that my neighbors &apos; girls were getting married .
They were getting mutilated , and here , after I graduated from here , I worked at the U.N. , I went back to school to get my graduate work , the constant cry of these girls was in my face .
I had to do something .
As I went back , I started talking to the men , to the village , and mothers , and I said , &quot; &quot; I want to give back the way I had promised you that I would come back and help you . What do you need ? &quot; &quot; As I spoke to the women , they told me , &quot; You know what we need ? We really need a school for girls . &quot;
Because there had not been any school for girls .
And the reason they wanted the school for girls is because when a girl is raped when she &apos;s walking to school , the mother is blamed for that .
If she got pregnant before she got married , the mother is blamed for that , and she &apos;s punished .
She &apos;s beaten .
They said , &quot; &quot; We wanted to put our girls in a safe place . &quot; &quot; As we moved , and I went to talk to the fathers , the fathers , of course , you can imagine what they said : &quot; We want a school for boys . &quot;
And I said , &quot; &quot; Well , there are a couple of men from my village who have been out and they have gotten an education .
Why can &apos;t they build a school for boys , and I &apos;ll build a school for girls ? &quot; &quot; That made sense . And they agreed .
And I told them , I wanted them to show me a sign of commitment .
And they did . They donated land where we built the girls &apos; school .
We have .
I want you to meet one of the girls in that school .
Angeline came to apply for the school , and she did not meet any criteria that we had .
She &apos;s an orphan . Yes , we could have taken her for that .
But she was older . She was 12 years old , and we were taking girls who were in fourth grade .
Angeline had been moving from one place — because she &apos;s an orphan , she has no mother , she has no father — moving from one grandmother &apos;s house to another one , from aunties to aunties . She had no stability in her life .
And I looked at her , I remember that day , and I saw something beyond what I was seeing in Angeline .
And yes , she was older to be in fourth grade .
We gave her the opportunity to come to the class .
Five months later , that is Angeline .
A transformation had begun in her life .
Angeline wants to be a pilot so she can fly around the world and make a difference .
She was not the top student when we took her .
Now she &apos;s the best student , not just in our school , but in the entire division that we are in .
That &apos;s Sharon . That &apos;s five years later .
That &apos;s Evelyn . Five months later , that is the difference that we are making .
As a new dawn is happening in my school , a new beginning is happening .
As we speak right now , 125 girls will never be mutilated .
One hundred twenty-five girls will not be married when they &apos;re 12 years old .
One hundred twenty-five girls are creating and achieving their dreams .
This is the thing that we are doing , giving them opportunities where they can rise .
As we speak right now , women are not being beaten because of the revolutions we &apos;ve started in our community .
( Applause ) I want to challenge you today .
You are listening to me because you are here , very optimistic .
You are somebody who is so passionate .
You are somebody who wants to see a better world .
You are somebody who wants to see that war ends , no poverty .
You are somebody who wants to make a difference .
You are somebody who wants to make our tomorrow better .
I want to challenge you today that to be the first , because people will follow you .
Be the first . People will follow you .
Be bold . Stand up . Be fearless . Be confident .
Move out , because as you change your world , as you change your community , as we believe that we are impacting one girl , one family , one village , one country at a time .
We are making a difference , so if you change your world , you are going to change your community , you are going to change your country , and think about that . If you do that , and I do that , aren &apos;t we going to create a better future for our children , for your children , for our grandchildren ?
And we will live in a very peaceful world . Thank you very much .
( Applause )
Curiosity and wonder , because it drives us to explore , because we &apos;re surrounded by things we can &apos;t see .
And I love to use film to take us on a journey through portals of time and space , to make the invisible visible , because what that does , it expands our horizons , it transforms our perception , it opens our minds and it touches our heart .
We can see how organisms emerge and grow , how a vine survives by creeping from the forest floor to look at the sunlight .
And at the grand scale , time lapse allows us to see our planet in motion .
Each streaking dot represents a passenger plane , and by turning air traffic data into time-lapse imagery , we can see something that &apos;s above us constantly but invisible : the vast network of air travel over the United States .
We can turn data into a time-lapse view of a global economy in motion .
And decades of data give us the view of our entire planet as a single organism sustained by currents circulating throughout the oceans and by clouds swirling through the atmosphere , pulsing with lightning , crowned by the aurora Borealis .
At the other extreme , there are things that move too fast for our eyes , but we have technology that can look into that world as well .
With high-speed cameras , we can do the opposite of time lapse .
And we can see how nature &apos;s ingenious devices work , and perhaps we can even imitate them .
When a dragonfly flutters by , you may not realize , but it &apos;s the greatest flier in nature .
And by tracking markers on an insect &apos;s wings , we can visualize the air flow that they produce .
And what we learn can lead us to new kinds of robotic flyers that can expand our vision of important and remote places .
The electron microscope fires electrons which creates images which can magnify things by as much as a million times .
And there are unseen creatures living all over your body , including mites that spend their entire lives dwelling on your eyelashes , crawling over your skin at night .
Can you guess what this is ?
A caterpillar &apos;s mouth .
An eggshell .
We think we know most of the animal kingdom , but there may be millions of tiny species waiting to be discovered .
A spider also has great secrets , because spiders &apos; silk thread is pound for pound stronger than steel but completely elastic .
This journey will take us all the way down to the nano world .
The silk is 100 times thinner than human hair .
On there is bacteria , and near that bacteria , 10 times smaller , a virus .
Tiny chemical machines of the future can one day , perhaps , repair DNA .
We are on the threshold of extraordinary advances , born of our drive to unveil the mysteries of life .
So under an endless rain of cosmic dust , the air is full of pollen , micro-diamonds and jewels from other planets and supernova explosions .
Knowing that there &apos;s so much around us we can &apos;t see forever changes our understanding of the world , and by looking at unseen worlds , we recognize that we exist in the living universe , and this new perspective creates wonder and inspires us to become explorers in our own backyards .
Tonight , I &apos;m going to try to make the case that inviting a loved one , a friend or even a stranger to record a meaningful interview with you just might turn out to be one of the most important moments in that person &apos;s life , and in yours .
When I was 22 years old , I was lucky enough to find my calling when I fell into making radio stories .
At almost the exact same time , I found out that my dad , who I was very , very close to , was gay .
I was taken completely by surprise .
We were a very tight-knit family , and I was crushed .
At some point , in one of our strained conversations , my dad mentioned the Stonewall riots .
He told me that one night in 1969 , a group of young black and Latino drag queens fought back against the police at a gay bar in Manhattan called the Stonewall Inn , and how this sparked the modern gay rights movement .
It was an amazing story , and it piqued my interest .
So I decided to pick up my tape recorder and find out more .
With the help of a young archivist named Michael Shirker , we tracked down all of the people we could find who had been at the Stonewall Inn that night .
Recording these interviews , I saw how the microphone gave me the license to go places I otherwise never would have gone and talk to people I might not otherwise ever have spoken to .
I had the privilege of getting to know some of the most amazing , fierce and courageous human beings I had ever met .
It was the first time the story of Stonewall had been told to a national audience .
I dedicated the program to my dad , it changed my relationship with him , and it changed my life .
Over the next 15 years , I made many more radio documentaries , working to shine a light on people who are rarely heard from in the media .
Over and over again , I &apos;d see how this simple act of being interviewed could mean so much to people , particularly those who had been told that their stories didn &apos;t matter .
I could literally see people &apos;s back straighten as they started to speak into the microphone .
In 1998 , I made a documentary about the last flophouse hotels on the Bowery in Manhattan .
Guys stayed up in these cheap hotels for decades .
They lived in cubicles the size of prison cells covered with chicken wire so you couldn &apos;t jump from one room into the next .
Later , I wrote a book on the men with the photographer Harvey Wang .
I remember walking into a flophouse with an early version of the book and showing one of the guys his page .
He stood there staring at it in silence , then he grabbed the book out of my hand and started running down the long , narrow hallway holding it over his head shouting , &quot; &quot; I exist ! I exist . &quot; &quot; ( Applause ) In many ways , &quot; &quot; I exist &quot; &quot; became the clarion call for StoryCorps , this crazy idea that I had a dozen years ago .
The thought was to take documentary work and turn it on its head .
Traditionally , broadcast documentary has been about recording interviews to create a work of art or entertainment or education that is seen or heard by a whole lot of people , but I wanted to try something where the interview itself was the purpose of this work , and see if we could give many , many , many people the chance to be listened to in this way .
So in Grand Central Terminal 11 years ago , we built a booth where anyone can come to honor someone else by interviewing them about their life .
You come to this booth and you &apos;re met by a facilitator who brings you inside .
You sit across from , say , your grandfather for close to an hour and you listen and you talk .
Many people think of it as , if this was to be our last conversation , what would I want to ask of and say to this person who means so much to me ?
At the end of the session , you walk away with a copy of the interview and another copy goes to the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress so that your great-great-great-grandkids can someday get to know your grandfather through his voice and story .
So we open this booth in one of the busiest places in the world and invite people to have this incredibly intimate conversation with another human being .
I had no idea if it would work , but from the very beginning , it did .
People treated the experience with incredible respect , and amazing conversations happened inside .
I want to play just one animated excerpt from an interview recorded at that original Grand Central Booth .
This is 12-year-old Joshua Littman interviewing his mother , Sarah .
Josh has Asperger &apos;s syndrome .
As you may know , kids with Asperger &apos;s are incredibly smart but have a tough time socially .
They usually have obsessions .
In Josh &apos;s case , it &apos;s with animals , so this is Josh talking with his mom Sarah at Grand Central nine years ago .
( Video ) Josh Littman : From a scale of one to 10 , do you think your life would be different without animals ?
Sarah Littman : I think it would be an eight without animals , because they add so much pleasure to life .
JL : How else do you think your life would be different without them ?
SL : I could do without things like cockroaches and snakes .
JL : Well , I &apos;m okay with snakes as long as they &apos;re not venomous or constrict you or anything .
SL : Yeah , I &apos;m not a big snake person — JL : But cockroach is just the insect we love to hate .
SL : Yeah , it really is .
JL : Have you ever thought you couldn &apos;t cope with having a child ?
SL : I remember when you were a baby , you had really bad colic , so you would just cry and cry .
JL : What &apos;s colic ? SL : It &apos;s when you get this stomach ache and all you do is scream for , like , four hours .
JL : Even louder than Amy does ?
SL : You were pretty loud , but Amy &apos;s was more high-pitched .
JL : I think it feels like everyone seems to like Amy more , like she &apos;s the perfect little angel .
SL : Well , I can understand why you think that people like Amy more , and I &apos;m not saying it &apos;s because of your Asperger &apos;s syndrome , but being friendly comes easily to Amy , whereas I think for you it &apos;s more difficult , but the people who take the time to get to know you love you so much .
JL : Like Ben or Eric or Carlos ? SL : Yeah — JL : Like I have better quality friends but less quantity ? ( Laughter ) SL : I wouldn &apos;t judge the quality , but I think — JL : I mean , first it was like , Amy loved Claudia , then she hated Claudia , she loved Claudia , then she hated Claudia .
SL : Part of that &apos;s a girl thing , honey .
The important thing for you is that you have a few very good friends , and really that &apos;s what you need in life .
JL : Did I turn out to be the son you wanted when I was born ?
Did I meet your expectations ?
SL : You &apos;ve exceeded my expectations , sweetie , because , sure , you have these fantasies of what your child &apos;s going to be like , but you have made me grow so much as a parent , because you think — JL : Well , I was the one who made you a parent .
SL : You were the one who made me a parent . That &apos;s a good point . ( Laughter ) But also because you think differently from what they tell you in the parenting books , I really had to learn to think outside of the box with you , and it &apos;s made me much more creative as a parent and as a person , and I &apos;ll always thank you for that .
JL : And that helped when Amy was born ?
SL : And that helped when Amy was born , but you are so incredibly special to me and I &apos;m so lucky to have you as my son .
( Applause ) David Isay : After this story ran on public radio , Josh received hundreds of letters telling him what an amazing kid he was .
His mom , Sarah , bound them together in a book , and when Josh got picked on at school , they would read the letters together .
I just want to acknowledge that two of my heroes are here with us tonight .
Sarah Littman and her son Josh , who is now an honors student in college .
( Applause ) You know , a lot of people talk about crying when they hear StoryCorps stories , and it &apos;s not because they &apos;re sad .
Most of them aren &apos;t .
I think it &apos;s because you &apos;re hearing something authentic and pure at this moment , when sometimes it &apos;s hard to tell what &apos;s real and what &apos;s an advertisement .
It &apos;s kind of the anti-reality TV .
Nobody comes to StoryCorps to get rich .
Nobody comes to get famous .
It &apos;s simply an act of generosity and love .
So many of these are just everyday people talking about lives lived with kindness , courage , decency and dignity , and when you hear that kind of story , it can sometimes feel like you &apos;re walking on holy ground .
So this experiment in Grand Central worked , and we expanded across the country .
Today , more than 100,000 people in all 50 states in thousands of cities and towns across America have recorded StoryCorps interviews .
It &apos;s now the largest single collection of human voices ever gathered .
( Applause ) We &apos;ve hired and trained hundreds of facilitators to help guide people through the experience .
Most serve a year or two with StoryCorps traveling the country , gathering the wisdom of humanity .
They call it bearing witness , and if you ask them , all of the facilitators will tell you that the most important thing they &apos;ve learned from being present during these interviews is that people are basically good .
And I think for the first years of StoryCorps , you could argue that there was some kind of a selection bias happening , but after tens of thousands of interviews with every kind of person in every part of the country — rich , poor , five years old to 105 , 80 different languages , across the political spectrum — you have to think that maybe these guys are actually onto something .
I &apos;ve also learned so much from these interviews .
I &apos;ve learned about the poetry and the wisdom and the grace that can be found in the words of people all around us when we simply take the time to listen , like this interview between a betting clerk in Brooklyn named Danny Perasa who brought his wife Annie to StoryCorps to talk about his love for her .
( Audio ) Danny Perasa : You see , the thing of it is , I always feel guilty when I say &quot; &quot; I love you &quot; &quot; to you .
And I say it so often . I say it to remind you that as dumpy as I am , it &apos;s coming from me .
It &apos;s like hearing a beautiful song from a busted old radio , and it &apos;s nice of you to keep the radio around the house .
Annie Perasa : If I don &apos;t have a note on the kitchen table , I think there &apos;s something wrong .
You write a love letter to me every morning .
DP : Well , the only thing that could possibly be wrong is I couldn &apos;t find a silly pen .
AP : To my princess : The weather outside today is extremely rainy .
I &apos;ll call you at 11 : 20 in the morning .
DP : It &apos;s a romantic weather report .
AP : And I love you . I love you . I love you .
DP : When a guy is happily married , no matter what happens at work , no matter what happens in the rest of the day , there &apos;s a shelter when you get home , there &apos;s a knowledge knowing that you can hug somebody without them throwing you downstairs and saying , &quot; &quot; Get your hands off me . &quot; &quot; Being married is like having a color television set .
You never want to go back to black and white .
( Laughter ) DI : Danny was about five feet tall with crossed eyes and one single snaggletooth , but Danny Perasa had more romance in his little pinky than all of Hollywood &apos;s leading men put together .
What else have I learned ?
I &apos;ve learned about the almost unimaginable capacity for the human spirit to forgive .
I &apos;ve learned about resilience and I &apos;ve learned about strength .
Like an interview with Oshea Israel and Mary Johnson .
When Oshea was a teenager , he murdered Mary &apos;s only son , Laramiun Byrd , in a gang fight .
A dozen years later , Mary went to prison to meet Oshea and find out who this person was who had taken her son &apos;s life .
Slowly and remarkably , they became friends , and when he was finally released from the penitentiary , Oshea actually moved in next door to Mary .
This is just a short excerpt of a conversation they had soon after Oshea was freed .
( Video ) Mary Johnson : My natural son is no longer here .
I didn &apos;t see him graduate , and now you &apos;re going to college .
I &apos;ll have the opportunity to see you graduate .
I didn &apos;t see him get married .
Hopefully one day , I &apos;ll be able to experience that with you .
Oshea Israel : Just to hear you say those things and to be in my life in the manner in which you are is my motivation .
It motivates me to make sure that I stay on the right path .
You still believe in me , and the fact that you can do it despite how much pain I caused you , it &apos;s amazing .
MJ : I know it &apos;s not an easy thing to be able to share our story together , even with us sitting here looking at each other right now .
I know it &apos;s not an easy thing , so I admire that you can do this .
OI : I love you , lady . MJ : I love you too , son .
( Applause ) DI : And I &apos;ve been reminded countless times of the courage and goodness of people , and how the arc of history truly does bend towards justice .
Like the story of Alexis Martinez , who was born Arthur Martinez in the Harold Ickes projects in Chicago .
In the interview , she talks with her daughter Lesley about joining a gang as a young man , and later in life transitioning into the woman she was always meant to be .
This is Alexis and her daughter Lesley .
( Audio ) Alexis Martinez : One of the most difficult things for me was I was always afraid that I wouldn &apos;t be allowed to be in my granddaughters &apos; lives , and you blew that completely out of the water , you and your husband .
One of the fruits of that is , in my relationship with my granddaughters , they fight with each other sometimes over whether I &apos;m he or she .
Lesley Martinez : But they &apos;re free to talk about it .
AM : They &apos;re free to talk about it , but that , to me , is a miracle .
LM : You don &apos;t have to apologize . You don &apos;t have to tiptoe .
We &apos;re not going to cut you off , and that &apos;s something I &apos;ve always wanted you to just know , that you &apos;re loved .
AM : You know , I live this every day now .
I walk down the streets as a woman , and I really am at peace with who I am .
I mean , I wish I had a softer voice maybe , but now I walk in love and I try to live that way every day .
DI : Now I walk in love .
I &apos;m going to tell you a secret about StoryCorps .
It takes some courage to have these conversations .
StoryCorps speaks to our mortality .
Participants know this recording will be heard long after they &apos;re gone .
There &apos;s a hospice doctor named Ira Byock who has worked closely with us on recording interviews with people who are dying .
He wrote a book called &quot; &quot; The Four Things That Matter Most &quot; &quot; about the four things you want to say to the most important people in your life before they or you die : thank you , I love you , forgive me , I forgive you .
They &apos;re just about the most powerful words we can say to one another , and often that &apos;s what happens in a StoryCorps booth .
It &apos;s a chance to have a sense of closure with someone you care about — no regrets , nothing left unsaid .
And it &apos;s hard and it takes courage , but that &apos;s why we &apos;re alive , right ?
So , the TED Prize .
When I first heard from TED and Chris a few months ago about the possibility of the Prize , I was completely floored .
They asked me to come up with a very brief wish for humanity , no more than 50 words .
So I thought about it , I wrote my 50 words , and a few weeks later , Chris called and said , &quot; &quot; Go for it . &quot; &quot; So here is my wish : that you will help us take everything we &apos;ve learned through StoryCorps and bring it to the world so that anyone anywhere can easily record a meaningful interview with another human being which will then be archived for history .
How are we going to do that ? With this .
We &apos;re fast moving into a future where everyone in the world will have access to one of these , and it has powers I never could have imagined 11 years ago when I started StoryCorps .
It has a microphone , it can tell you how to do things , and it can send audio files .
Those are the key ingredients .
So the first part of the wish is already underway .
Over the past couple of months , the team at StoryCorps has been working furiously to create an app that will bring StoryCorps out of our booths so that it can be experienced by anyone , anywhere , anytime .
Remember , StoryCorps has always been two people and a facilitator helping them record their conversation , which is preserved forever , but at this very moment , we &apos;re releasing a public beta version of the StoryCorps app .
The app is a digital facilitator that walks you through the StoryCorps interview process , helps you pick questions , and gives you all the tips you need to record a meaningful StoryCorps interview , and then with one tap upload it to our archive at the Library of Congress .
That &apos;s the easy part , the technology .
The real challenge is up to you : to take this tool and figure out how we can use it all across America and around the world , so that instead of recording thousands of StoryCorps interviews a year , we could potentially record tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands or maybe even more .
Imagine , for example , a national homework assignment where every high school student studying U.S. history across the country records an interview with an elder over Thanksgiving , so that in one single weekend an entire generation of American lives and experiences are captured .
( Applause ) Or imagine mothers on opposite sides of a conflict somewhere in the world sitting down not to talk about that conflict but to find out who they are as people , and in doing so , begin to build bonds of trust ; or that someday it becomes a tradition all over the world that people are honored with a StoryCorps interview on their 75th birthday ; or that people in your community go into retirement homes or hospitals or homeless shelters or even prisons armed with this app to honor the people least heard in our society and ask them who they are , what they &apos;ve learned in life ,
and how they want to be remembered .
( Applause ) Ten years ago , I recorded a StoryCorps interview with my dad who was a psychiatrist , and became a well-known gay activist .
This is the picture of us at that interview .
I never thought about that recording until a couple of years ago , when my dad , who seemed to be in perfect health and was still seeing patients 40 hours a week , was diagnosed with cancer .
He passed away very suddenly a few days later .
It was June 28 , 2012 , the anniversary of the Stonewall riots .
I listened to that interview for the first time at three in the morning on the day that he died .
I have a couple of young kids at home , and I knew that the only way they were going to get to know this person who was such a towering figure in my life would be through that session .
I thought I couldn &apos;t believe in StoryCorps any more deeply than I did , but it was at that moment that I fully and viscerally grasped the importance of making these recordings .
Every day , people come up to me and say , &quot; &quot; I wish I had interviewed my father or my grandmother or my brother , but I waited too long . &quot; &quot; Now , no one has to wait anymore .
At this moment , when so much of how we communicate is fleeting and inconsequential , join us in creating this digital archive of conversations that are enduring and important .
Help us create this gift to our children , this testament to who we are as human beings .
I hope you &apos;ll help us make this wish come true .
Interview a family member , a friend or even a stranger .
Together , we can create an archive of the wisdom of humanity , and maybe in doing so , we &apos;ll learn to listen a little more and shout a little less .
Maybe these conversations will remind us what &apos;s really important .
And maybe , just maybe , it will help us recognize that simple truth that every life , every single life , matters equally and infinitely .
Thank you very much .
( Applause ) Thank you . Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause )
I &apos;d like to start with a short story .
It &apos;s about a little boy whose father was a history buff and who used to take him by the hand to visit the ruins of an ancient metropolis on the outskirts of their camp .
They would always stop by to visit these huge winged bulls that used to guard the gates of that ancient metropolis , and the boy used to be scared of these winged bulls , but at the same time they excited him .
And the dad used to use those bulls to tell the boy stories about that civilization and their work .
Let &apos;s fast-forward to the San Francisco Bay Area many decades later , where I started a technology company that brought the world its first 3D laser scanning system .
Let me show you how it works .
Female Voice : Long range laser scanning by sending out a pulse that &apos;s a laser beam of light .
The system measures the beam &apos;s time of flight , recording the time it takes for the light to hit a surface and make its return .
With two mirrors , the scanner calculates the beam &apos;s horizontal and vertical angles , giving accurate x , y , and z coordinates .
The point is then recorded into a 3D visualization program .
All of this happens in seconds .
Ben Kacyra : You can see here , these systems are extremely fast .
They collect millions of points at a time with very high accuracy and very high resolution .
A surveyor with traditional survey tools would be hard-pressed to produce maybe 500 points in a whole day .
These babies would be producing something like ten thousand points a second .
So , as you can imagine , this was a paradigm shift in the survey and construction as well as in reality capture industry .
Approximately ten years ago , my wife and I started a foundation to do good , and right about that time , the magnificent Bamiyan Buddhas , hundred and eighty foot tall in Afghanistan , were blown up by the Taliban .
They were gone in an instant .
And unfortunately , there was no detailed documentation of these Buddhas .
This clearly devastated me , and I couldn &apos;t help but wonder about the fate of my old friends , the winged bulls , and the fate of the many , many heritage sites all over the world .
Both my wife and I were so touched by this that we decided to expand the mission of our foundation to include digital heritage preservation of world sites .
We called the project CyArk , which stands for Cyber Archive .
To date , with the help of a global network of partners , we &apos;ve completed close to fifty projects .
Let me show you some of them : Chichen Itza , Rapa Nui — and what you &apos;re seeing here are the cloud of points — Babylon , Rosslyn Chapel , Pompeii , and our latest project , Mt . Rushmore , which happened to be one of our most challenging projects .
As you see here , we had to develop a special rig to bring the scanner up close and personal .
The results of our work in the field are used to produce media and deliverables to be used by conservators and researchers .
We also produce media for dissemination to the public — free through the CyArk website .
These would be used for education , cultural tourism , etc .
What you &apos;re looking at in here is a 3D viewer that we developed that would allow the display and manipulation of &#91; the &#93; cloud of points in real time , cutting sections through them and extracting dimensions .
This happens to be the cloud of points for Tikal .
In here you see a traditional 2D architectural engineering drawing that &apos;s used for preservation , and of course we tell the stories through fly-throughs .
And here , this is a fly-through the cloud of points of Tikal , and here you see it rendered and photo-textured with the photography that we take of the site .
And so this is not a video .
This is actual 3D points with two to three millimeter accuracy .
And of course the data can be used to develop 3D models that are very accurate and very detailed .
And here you &apos;re looking at a model that &apos;s extracted from the cloud of points for Stirling Castle .
It &apos;s used for studies , for visualization , as well as for education .
And finally , we produce mobile apps that include narrated virtual tools .
The more I got involved in the heritage field , the more it became clear to me that we are losing the sites and the stories faster than we can physically preserve them .
Of course , earthquakes and all the natural phenomena — floods , tornadoes , etc . — take their toll .
However , what occurred to me was human-caused destruction , which was not only causing a significant portion of the destruction , but actually it was accelerating .
This includes arson , urban sprawl , acid rain , not to mention terrorism and wars .
It was getting more and more apparent that we &apos;re fighting a losing battle .
We &apos;re losing our sites and the stories , and basically we &apos;re losing a piece — and a significant piece — of our collective memory .
Imagine us as a human race not knowing where we came from .
Luckily , in the last two or three decades , digital technologies have been developing that have helped us to develop tools that we &apos;ve brought to bear in the digital preservation , in our digital preservation war .
This includes , for example , the 3D laser scanning systems , ever more powerful personal computers , 3D graphics , high-definition digital photography , not to mention the Internet .
Because of this accelerated pace of destruction , it became clear to us that we needed to challenge ourselves and our partners to accelerate our work .
And we created a project we call the CyArk 500 Challenge — and that is to digitally preserve 500 World Heritage Sites in five years .
We do have the technology that &apos;s scaleable , and our network of global partners has been expanding and can be expanded at a rapid rate , so we &apos;re comfortable that this task can be accomplished .
However , to me , the 500 is really just the first 500 .
In order to sustain our work into the future , we use technology centers where we partner with local universities and colleges to take the technology to them , whereby they then can help us with digital preservation of their heritage sites , and at the same time , it gives them the technology to benefit from in the future .
Let me close with another short story .
Two years ago , we were approached by a partner of ours to digitally preserve an important heritage site , a UNESCO heritage site in Uganda , the Royal Kasubi Tombs .
The work was done successfully in the field , and the data was archived and publicly disseminated through the CyArk website .
Last March , we received very sad news .
The Royal Tombs had been destroyed by suspected arson .
A few days later , we received a call : &quot; &quot; Is the data available and can it be used for reconstruction ? &quot; &quot; Our answer , of course , was yes .
Let me leave you with a final thought .
Our heritage is much more than our collective memory — it &apos;s our collective treasure .
We owe it to our children , our grandchildren and the generations we will never meet to keep it safe and to pass it along .
Thank you .
( Applause ) Thank you . Thank you . Thank you .
Well , I &apos;m staying here because we wanted to demonstrate to you
the power of this technology and so , while I &apos;ve been speaking , you have been scanned .
( Laughter ) The two wizards that I have that are behind the curtain will help me bring the results on the screen .
( Applause ) This is all in 3D and of course you can fly through the cloud of points .
You can look at it from on top , from the ceiling .
You can look from different vantage points , but I &apos;m going to ask Doug to zoom in on an individual in the crowd , just to show the amount of detail that we can create .
So you have been digitally preserved in about four minutes .
( Laughter ) I &apos;d like to thank the wizards here .
We were very lucky to have two of our partners participate in this : the Historic Scotland , and the Glasgow School of Art .
I &apos;d like to also thank personally the efforts of David Mitchell , who is the Director of Conservation at Historic Scotland .
David .
( Applause ) And Doug Pritchard , who &apos;s the Head of Visualization at the Glasgow School of Art .
Let &apos;s give them a hand .
( Applause ) Thank you .
Now I &apos;m going to give you a story .
It &apos;s an Indian story about an Indian woman and her journey .
Let me begin with my parents .
I &apos;m a product of this visionary mother and father .
Many years ago , when I was born in the &apos; 50s — &apos; 50s and &apos; 60s didn &apos;t belong to girls in India .
They belonged to boys .
They belonged to boys who would join business and inherit business from parents , and girls would be dolled up to get married .
My family , in my city , and almost in the country , was unique .
We were four of us , not one , and fortunately no boys .
We were four girls and no boys .
And my parents were part of a landed property family .
My father defied his own grandfather , almost to the point of disinheritance , because he decided to educate all four of us .
He sent us to one of the best schools in the city and gave us the best education .
As I &apos;ve said , when we &apos;re born , we don &apos;t choose our parents , and when we go to school , we don &apos;t choose our school .
Children don &apos;t choose a school .
They just get the school which parents choose for them .
So this is the foundation time which I got .
I grew up like this , and so did my other three sisters .
And my father used to say at that time , &quot; I &apos;m going to spread all my four daughters in four corners of the world . &quot;
I don &apos;t know if he really meant &#91; that &#93; , but it happened .
I &apos;m the only one who &apos;s left in India .
One is a British , another is an American and the third is a Canadian .
So we are four of us in four corners of the world .
And since I said they &apos;re my role models , I followed two things which my father and mother gave me .
One , they said , &quot; &quot; Life is on an incline .
You either go up , or you come down . &quot; &quot; And the second thing , which has stayed with me , which became my philosophy of life , which made all the difference , is : 100 things happen in your life , good or bad .
Out of 100 , 90 are your creation .
They &apos;re good . They &apos;re your creation . Enjoy it .
If they &apos;re bad , they &apos;re your creation . Learn from it .
Ten are nature-sent over which you can &apos;t do a thing .
It &apos;s like a death of a relative , or a cyclone , or a hurricane , or an earthquake .
You can &apos;t do a thing about it .
You &apos;ve got to just respond to the situation .
But that response comes out of those 90 points .
Since I &apos;m a product of this philosophy , of 90 / 10 , and secondly , &quot; &quot; life on an incline , &quot; &quot; that &apos;s the way I grew up to be valuing what I got .
I &apos;m a product of opportunities , rare opportunities in the &apos; 50s and the &apos; 60s , which girls didn &apos;t get , and I was conscious of the fact that what my parents were giving me was something unique .
Because all of my best school friends were getting dolled up to get married with a lot of dowry , and here I was with a tennis racket and going to school and doing all kinds of extracurricular activities .
I thought I must tell you this .
Why I said this , is the background .
This is what comes next .
I joined the Indian Police Service as a tough woman , a woman with indefatigable stamina , because I used to run for my tennis titles , etc .
But I joined the Indian Police Service , and then it was a new pattern of policing .
For me the policing stood for power to correct , power to prevent and power to detect .
This is something like a new definition ever given in policing in India — the power to prevent .
Because normally it was always said , power to detect , and that &apos;s it , or power to punish .
But I decided no , it &apos;s a power to prevent , because that &apos;s what I learned when I was growing up .
How do I prevent the 10 and never make it more than 10 ?
So this was how it came into my service , and it was different from the men .
I didn &apos;t want to make it different from the men , but it was different , because this was the way I was different .
And I redefined policing concepts in India .
I &apos;m going to take you on two journeys , my policing journey and my prison journey .
What you see , if you see the title called &quot; &quot; PM &apos;s car held . &quot; &quot; This was the first time a prime minister of India was given a parking ticket .
( Laughter ) That &apos;s the first time in India , and I can tell you , that &apos;s the last time you &apos;re hearing about it .
It &apos;ll never happen again in India , because now it was once and forever .
And the rule was , because I was sensitive , I was compassionate , I was very sensitive to injustice , and I was very pro-justice .
That &apos;s the reason , as a woman , I joined the Indian Police Service .
I had other options , but I didn &apos;t choose them .
So I &apos;m going to move on .
This is about tough policing , equal policing .
Now I was known as &quot; &quot; here &apos;s a woman that &apos;s not going to listen . &quot; &quot; So I was sent to all indiscriminate postings , postings which others would say no .
I now went to a prison assignment as a police officer .
Normally police officers don &apos;t want to do prison .
They sent me to prison to lock me up , thinking , &quot; &quot; Now there will be no cars and no VIPs to be given tickets to .
Let &apos;s lock her up . &quot; &quot; Here I got a prison assignment .
This was a prison assignment which was one big den of criminals .
Obviously , it was .
But 10,000 men , of which only 400 were women — 10,000 — 9,000 plus about 600 were men .
Terrorists , rapists , burglars , gangsters — some of them I &apos;d sent to jail as a police officer outside .
And then how did I deal with them ?
The first day when I went in , I didn &apos;t know how to look at them .
And I said , &quot; &quot; Do you pray ? &quot; &quot; When I looked at the group , I said , &quot; &quot; Do you pray ? &quot; &quot; They saw me as a young , short woman wearing a pathan suit . I said , &quot; &quot; Do you pray ? &quot; &quot;
And they didn &apos;t say anything .
I said , &quot; &quot; Do you pray ? Do you want to pray ? &quot; &quot; They said , &quot; &quot; Yes . &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; All right , let &apos;s pray . &quot; &quot; I prayed for them , and things started to change .
This is a visual of education inside the prison .
Friends , this has never happened , where everybody in the prison studies .
I started this with community support .
Government had no budget .
It was one of the finest , largest volunteerism in any prison in the world .
This was initiated in Delhi prison .
You see one sample of a prisoner teaching a class .
These are hundreds of classes .
Nine to eleven , every prisoner went into the education program — the same den in which they thought they would put me behind the bar and things would be forgotten .
We converted this into an ashram — from a prison to an ashram through education .
I think that &apos;s the bigger change .
It was the beginning of a change .
Teachers were prisoners . Teachers were volunteers .
Books came from donated schoolbooks .
Stationery was donated .
Everything was donated , because there was no budget of education for the prison .
Now if I &apos;d not done that , it would have been a hellhole .
That &apos;s the second landmark .
I want to show you some moments of history in my journey , which probably you would never ever get to see anywhere in the world .
One , the numbers you &apos;ll never get to see .
Secondly , this concept .
This was a meditation program inside the prison of over 1,000 prisoners .
One thousand prisoners who sat in meditation .
This was one of the most courageous steps I took as a prison governor .
And this is what transformed .
You want to know more about this , go and see this film , &quot; &quot; Doing Time , Doing Vipassana . &quot; &quot; You will hear about it , and you will love it .
And write to me on KiranBedi.com , and I &apos;ll respond to you .
Let me show you the next slide .
I took the same concept of mindfulness , because , why did I bring meditation into the Indian prison ?
Because crime is a product of a distorted mind .
It was distortion of mind which needed to be addressed to control .
Not by preaching , not by telling , not by reading , but by addressing your mind .
I took the same thing to the police , because police , equally , were prisoners of their minds , and they felt as if it was &quot; &quot; we &quot; &quot; and &quot; &quot; they , &quot; &quot; and that the people don &apos;t cooperate .
This worked .
This is a feedback box called a petition box .
This is a concept which I introduced to listen to complaints , listen to grievances .
This was a magic box .
This was a sensitive box .
This is how a prisoner drew how they felt about the prison .
If you see somebody in the blue — yeah , this guy — he was a prisoner , and he was a teacher .
And you see , everybody &apos;s busy . There was no time to waste .
Let me wrap it up .
I &apos;m currently into movements , movements of education of the under-served children , which is thousands — India is all about thousands .
Secondly is about the anti-corruption movement in India .
That &apos;s a big way we , as a small group of activists , have drafted an ombudsman bill for the government of India .
Friends , you will hear a lot about it .
That &apos;s the movement at the moment I &apos;m driving , and that &apos;s the movement and ambition of my life .
Thank you very much .
( Applause ) Thank you . Thank you very much . Thank you .
Thank you . Thank you . Thank you .
In the spring of 2016 , a legal battle between Apple and the Federal Bureau of Investigation captured the world &apos;s attention .
Apple has built security features into its mobile products which protect data on its devices from everyone but the owner .
That means that criminals , hackers and yes , even governments are all locked out .
For Apple &apos;s customers , this is a great thing .
But governments are not so happy .
You see , Apple has made a conscious decision to get out of the surveillance business .
Apple has tried to make surveillance as difficult as possible for governments and any other actors .
There are really two smartphone operating systems in the global smartphone market : iOS and Android .
iOS is made by Apple . Android is made by Google .
Apple has spent a lot of time and money to make sure that its products are as secure as possible .
Apple encrypts all data stored on iPhones by default , and text messages sent from one Apple customer to another Apple customer are encrypted by default without the user having to take any actions .
What this means is that , if the police seize an iPhone and it has a password , they &apos;ll have a difficult time getting any data off of it , if they can do it at all .
In contrast , the security of Android just really isn &apos;t as good .
Android phones , or at least most of the Android phones that have been sold to consumers , do not encrypt data stored on the device by default , and the built-in text messaging app in Android does not use encryption .
So if the police seize an Android phone , chances are , they &apos;ll be able to get all the data they want off of that device .
Two smartphones from two of the biggest companies in the world ; one that protects data by default , and one that doesn &apos;t .
Apple is a seller of luxury goods .
It dominates the high end of the market .
And we would expect a manufacturer of luxury goods to have products that include more features .
But not everyone can afford an iPhone .
That &apos;s where Android really , really dominates : at the middle and low end of the market , smartphones for the billion and a half people who cannot or will not spend 600 dollars on a phone .
But the dominance of Android has led to what I call the &quot; &quot; digital security divide . &quot; &quot; That is , there is now increasingly a gap between the privacy and security of the rich , who can afford devices that secure their data by default , and of the poor , whose devices do very little to protect them by default .
So , think of the average Apple customer : a banker , a lawyer , a doctor , a politician .
These individuals now increasingly have smartphones in their pockets that encrypt their calls , their text messages , all the data on the device , without them doing really anything to secure their information .
In contrast , the poor and the most vulnerable in our societies are using devices that leave them completely vulnerable to surveillance .
In the United States , where I live , African-Americans are more likely to be seen as suspicious or more likely to be profiled , and are more likely to be targeted by the state with surveillance .
But African-Americans are also disproportionately likely to use Android devices that do nothing at all to protect them from that surveillance .
This is a problem .
We must remember that surveillance is a tool .
It &apos;s a tool used by those in power against those who have no power .
And while I think it &apos;s absolutely great that companies like Apple are making it easy for people to encrypt , if the only people who can protect themselves from the gaze of the government are the rich and powerful , that &apos;s a problem .
And it &apos;s not just a privacy or a cybersecurity problem .
It &apos;s a civil rights problem .
So the lack of default security in Android is not just a problem for the poor and vulnerable users who are depending on these devices .
This is actually a problem for our democracy .
I &apos;ll explain what I mean .
Modern social movements rely on technology — from Black Lives Matter to the Arab Spring to Occupy Wall Street .
The organizers of these movements and the members of these movements increasingly communicate and coordinate with smartphones .
And so , naturally governments that feel threatened by these movements will also target the organizers and their smartphones .
But chances are , they &apos;ll probably have a cheap , $ 20 Android phone in their pocket .
And so if we do nothing to address the digital security divide , if we do nothing to ensure that everyone in our society gets the same benefits of encryption and is equally able to protect themselves from surveillance by the state , not only will the poor and vulnerable be exposed to surveillance , but future civil rights movements may be crushed before they ever reach their full potential .
Thank you .
( Applause ) Helen Walters : Chris , thank you so much .
I have a question for you .
We saw recently in the press that Mark Zuckerberg from Facebook covers over his camera and does something with his headphone mic jack .
So I wanted to ask you a personal question , which is : Do you do that ?
And , on behalf of everyone here , particularly myself , Should we be doing that ?
Should we be covering these things ?
Christopher Soghoian : Putting a sticker — actually , I like Band-Aids , because you can remove them and put them back on whenever you want to make a call or a Skype call .
Putting a sticker over your web cam is probably the best thing you can do for your privacy in terms of bang for buck .
There really is malware , malicious software out there that can take over your web cam , even without the light turning on .
This is used by criminals . This is used by stalkers .
You can buy $ 19.99 &quot; &quot; spy on your ex-girlfriend &quot; &quot; software online .
It &apos;s really terrifying .
And there &apos;s obviously a sexual violence component to this , which is that this kind of surveillance can be used most effectively against women and other people who can be shamed in our society .
Even if you think you have nothing to hide , at the very least , if you have children , teenagers in your lives , make sure you put a sticker on their camera and protect them .
HW : Wow . Thank you so much . CS : Thank you .
HW : Thanks , Chris .
( Applause )
In the next 18 minutes , I &apos;m going to take you on a journey .
And it &apos;s a journey that you and I have been on for many years now , and it began some 50 years ago , when humans first stepped off our planet .
And in those 50 years , not only did we literally , physically set foot on the moon , but we have dispatched robotic spacecraft to all the planets — all eight of them — and we have landed on asteroids , we have rendezvoused with comets , and , at this point in time , we have a spacecraft on its way to Pluto , the body formerly known as a planet .
And all of these robotic missions are part of a bigger human journey : a voyage to understand something , to get a sense of our cosmic place , to understand something of our origins , and how Earth , our planet , and we , living on it , came to be .
And of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this , there &apos;s Saturn . And we have been to Saturn before — we visited Saturn in the early 1980s — but our investigations of Saturn have become far more in-depth in detail since the Cassini spacecraft , traveling across interplanetary space for seven years , glided into orbit around Saturn in the summer of 2004 , and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the Sun .
Now , the Saturn system is a rich planetary system .
It offers mystery , scientific insight and obviously splendor beyond compare , and the investigation of this system has enormous cosmic reach .
In fact , just studying the rings alone , we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies .
And here &apos;s a beautiful picture of the Andromeda Nebula , which is our closest , largest spiral galaxy to the Milky Way .
And then , here &apos;s a beautiful composite of the Whirlpool Galaxy , taken by the Hubble Space Telescope .
So the journey back to Saturn is really part of and is also a metaphor for a much larger human voyage to understand the interconnectedness of everything around us , and also how humans fit into that picture .
And it pains me that I can &apos;t tell you all that we have learned with Cassini .
I can &apos;t show you all the beautiful pictures that we &apos;ve taken in the last two and a half years , because I simply don &apos;t have the time .
So I &apos;m going to concentrate on two of the most exciting stories that have emerged out of this major exploratory expedition that we are conducting around Saturn , and have been for the past two and a half years .
Saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons .
They range in size from a few kilometers across to as big across as the U.S.
Most of the beautiful pictures we &apos;ve taken of Saturn , in fact , show Saturn in accompaniment with some of its moons . Here &apos;s Saturn with Dione , and then , here &apos;s Saturn showing the rings edge-on , showing you just how vertically thin they are , with the moon Enceladus .
Now , two of the 47 moons that Saturn has are standouts .
And those are Titan and Enceladus . Titan is Saturn &apos;s largest moon , and , until Cassini had arrived there , was the largest single expanse of unexplored terrain that we had remaining in our solar system .
And it is a body that has long intrigued people who &apos;ve watched the planets .
It has a very large , thick atmosphere , and in fact , its surface environment was believed to be more like the environment we have here on the Earth , or at least had in the past , than any other body in the solar system .
Its atmosphere is largely molecular nitrogen , like you are breathing here in this room , except that its atmosphere is suffused with simple organic materials like methane and propane and ethane .
And these molecules high up in the atmosphere of Titan get broken down , and their products join together to make haze particles .
This haze is ubiquitous . It &apos;s completely global and enveloping Titan .
And that &apos;s why you cannot see down to the surface with our eyes in the visible region of the spectrum .
But these haze particles , it was surmised , before we got there with Cassini , over billions and billions of years , gently drifted down to the surface and coated the surface in a thick organic sludge .
So like the equivalent , the Titan equivalent , of tar , or oil , or what — we didn &apos;t know what .
But this is what we suspected . And these molecules , especially methane and ethane , can be liquids at the surface temperatures of Titan .
And so it turns out that methane is to Titan what water is to the Earth .
It &apos;s a condensable in the atmosphere , and so recognizing this circumstance brought to the fore a whole world of bizarre possibilities . You can have methane clouds , OK , and above those clouds , you have this hundreds of kilometers of haze , which prevent any sunlight from getting to the surface .
The temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero Fahrenheit .
But despite that cold , you could have rain falling down on the surface of Titan .
And doing on Titan what rain does on the Earth : it carves gullies ; it forms rivers and cataracts ; it can create canyons ; it can pool in large basins and craters .
It can wash the sludge off high mountain peaks and hills , down into the lowlands . So stop and think for a minute .
Try to imagine what the surface of Titan might look like .
It &apos;s dark . High noon on Titan is as dark as deep earth twilight on the Earth .
It &apos;s cold , it &apos;s eerie , it &apos;s misty , it might be raining , and you might be standing on the shores of Lake Michigan brimming with paint thinner . ( Laughter ) That is the view that we had of the surface of Titan before we got there with Cassini , and I can tell you that what we have found on Titan , though it is not the same in detail , is every bit as fascinating as that story is .
And for us , it has been like — the Cassini people — it has been like a Jules Verne adventure come true .
As I said , it has a thick , extensive atmosphere .
This is a picture of Titan , backlit by the Sun , with the rings as a beautiful backdrop .
And yet another moon there — I don &apos;t even know which one it is . It &apos;s a very extensive atmosphere .
We have instruments on Cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere , and my camera system is one of them .
And we have taken pictures like this .
And what you see is bright and dark regions , and that &apos;s about as far as it got for us .
It was so mystifying : we couldn &apos;t make out what we were seeing on Titan .
When you look closer at this region , you start to see things like sinuous channels — we didn &apos;t know . You see a few round things .
This , we later found out , is , in fact , a crater , but there are very few craters on the surface of Titan , meaning it &apos;s a very young surface .
And there are features that look tectonic .
They look like they &apos;ve been pulled apart .
Whenever you see anything linear on a planet , it means there &apos;s been a fracture , like a fault .
And so it &apos;s been tectonically altered .
But we couldn &apos;t make sense of our images , until , six months after we got into orbit , an event occurred that many have regarded as the highlight of Cassini &apos;s investigation of Titan .
And that was the deployment of the Huygens probe , the European-built Huygens probe that Cassini had carried for seven years across the solar system . We deployed it to the atmosphere of Titan , it took two and a half hours to descend , and it landed on the surface .
And I just want to emphasize how significant an event this is .
This is a device of human making , and it landed in the outer solar system for the first time in human history .
It is so significant that , in my mind , this was an event that should have been celebrated with ticker tape parades in every city across the U.S. and Europe , and sadly , that wasn &apos;t the case .
( Laughter ) .
It was significant for another reason . This is an international mission , and this event was celebrated in Europe , in Germany , and the celebratory presentations were given in English accents , and American accents , and German accents , and French and Italian and Dutch accents .
It was a moving demonstration of what the words &quot; &quot; united nations &quot; &quot; are supposed to mean : a true union of nations joined together in a colossal effort for good .
And , in this case , it was a massive undertaking to explore a planet , and to come to understand a planetary system that , for all of human history , had been unreachable , and now humans had actually touched it .
So it was — I mean , I &apos;m getting goose bumps just talking about it .
It was a tremendously emotional event , and it &apos;s something that I will personally never forget , and you shouldn &apos;t either .
( Applause ) .
But anyway , the probe took measurements of the atmosphere on the way down , and it also took panoramic pictures .
And I can &apos;t tell you what it was like to see the first pictures of Titan &apos;s surface from the probe . And this is what we saw .
And it was a shocker , because it was everything we wanted those other pictures taken from orbit to be .
It was an unambiguous pattern , a geological pattern .
It &apos;s a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids .
And you can follow these channels and you can see how they all converge .
And they converge into this channel here , which drains into this region .
You are looking at a shoreline .
Was this a shoreline of fluids ? We didn &apos;t know .
But this is somewhat of a shoreline .
This picture is taken at 16 kilometers .
This is the picture taken at eight kilometers , OK ? Again , the shoreline .
Okay , now , 16 kilometers , eight kilometers — this is roughly an airline altitude .
If you were going to take an airplane trip across the U.S. , you would be flying at these altitudes .
So , this is the picture you would have at the window of Titanian Airlines as you fly across the surface of Titan . ( Laughter ) And then finally , the probe came to rest on the surface , and I &apos;m going to show you , ladies and gentlemen , the first picture ever taken from the surface of a moon in the outer solar system .
And here is the horizon , OK ?
These are probably water ice pebbles , yes ?
( Applause ) .
And obviously , it landed in one of these flat , dark regions and it didn &apos;t sink out of sight . So it wasn &apos;t fluid that we landed in .
What the probe came down in was basically the Titan equivalent of a mud flat .
This is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane .
And it &apos;s probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of Titan through these channels that we saw , and has drained over billions of years to fill in low-lying basins .
And that is what the Huygens probe landed in .
But still , there was no sign in our images , or even in the Huygens &apos; images , of any large , open bodies of fluids .
Where were they ? It got even more puzzling when we found dunes .
OK , so this is our movie of the equatorial region of Titan , showing these dunes . These are dunes that are 100 meters tall , separated by a few kilometers , and they go on for miles and miles and miles .
There &apos;s hundreds , up to a 1,000 or 1,200 miles of dunes .
This is the Saharan desert of Titan .
It &apos;s obviously a place which is very dry , or you wouldn &apos;t get dunes .
So again , it got puzzling that there were no bodies of fluid , until finally , we saw lakes in the polar regions .
And there is a lake scene in the south polar region of Titan .
It &apos;s about the size of Lake Ontario .
And then , only a week and a half ago , we flew over the north pole of Titan and found , again , we found a feature here the size of the Caspian Sea .
So it seems that the liquids , for some reason we don &apos;t understand , or during at least this season , are apparently at the poles of Titan .
And I think you would agree that we have found Titan is a remarkable , mystical place . It &apos;s exotic , it &apos;s alien , but yet strangely Earth-like , and having Earth-like geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity , and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the Earth itself .
And so now we go onto Enceladus . Enceladus is a small moon , it &apos;s about a tenth the size of Titan . And you can see it here next to England , just to show you the size . This is not meant to be a threat .
( Laughter ) .
And Enceladus is very white , it &apos;s very bright , and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures .
It is a very geologically active body .
But the mother lode of discoveries on Enceladus was found at the south pole — and we &apos;re looking at the south pole here — where we found this system of fractures .
And they &apos;re a different color because they &apos;re a different composition .
They are coated . These fractures are coated with organic materials .
Moreover , this whole , entire region , the south polar region , has elevated temperatures . It &apos;s the hottest place on the planet , on the body .
That &apos;s as bizarre as finding that the Antarctic on the Earth is hotter than the tropics .
And then , when we took additional pictures , we discovered that from these fractures are issuing jets of fine , icy particles extending hundreds of miles into space .
And when we color-code this image , to bring out the faint light levels , we see that these jets feed a plume that , in fact , we see , in other images , goes thousands of miles into the space above Enceladus .
My team and I have examined images like this , and like this one , and have thought about the other results from Cassini .
And we have arrived at the conclusion that these jets may be erupting from pockets of liquid water under the surface of Enceladus .
So we have , possibly , liquid water , organic materials and excess heat .
In other words , we have possibly stumbled upon the holy grail of modern day planetary exploration , or in other words , an environment that is potentially suitable for living organisms .
And I don &apos;t think I need to tell you that the discovery of life elsewhere in our solar system , whether it be on Enceladus or elsewhere , would have enormous cultural and scientific implications .
Because if we could demonstrate that genesis had occurred not once , but twice , independently , in our solar system , then that means , by inference , it has occurred a staggering number of times throughout the universe and its 13.7 billion year history .
Right now , Earth is the only planet still that we know is teeming with life .
It is precious , it is unique , it is still , so far , the only home we &apos;ve ever known .
And if any of you were alert and coherent during the 1960s — and we &apos;d forgive you , if you weren &apos;t , OK — you would remember this very famous picture taken by the Apollo 8 astronauts in 1968 .
It was the first time that Earth was imaged from space , and it had an enormous impact on our sense of place in the universe , and our sense of responsibility for the protection of our own planet .
Well , we on Cassini have taken an equivalent first , a picture that no human eye has ever seen before .
It is a total eclipse of the Sun , seen from the other side of Saturn .
And in this impossibly beautiful picture , you see the main rings backlit by the Sun , you see the refracted image of the Sun and you see this ring created , in fact , by the exhalations of Enceladus .
But as if that weren &apos;t brilliant enough , we can spot , in this beautiful image , sight of our own planet , cradled in the arms of Saturn &apos;s rings .
Now , there is something deeply moving about seeing ourselves from afar , and capturing the sight of our little , blue-ocean planet in the skies of other worlds .
And that , and the perspective of ourselves that we gain from that , may be , in the end , the finest reward that we earn from this journey of discovery that started half a century ago .
And thank you very much .
( Applause )
Good morning . How are you ?
I have an interest in education .
But if you are , and you say to somebody , you know , they say , &quot; &quot; What do you do ? &quot; &quot; and you say you work in education , you can see the blood run from their face .
And yet we &apos;re meant to be educating them for it .
And she &apos;s exceptional , but I think she &apos;s not , so to speak , exceptional in the whole of childhood .
So I want to talk about education and I want to talk about creativity .
We had the place crammed full of agents in T-shirts : &quot; &quot; James Robinson IS Joseph ! &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) He didn &apos;t have to speak , but you know the bit where the three kings come in ?
What we do know is , if you &apos;re not prepared to be wrong , you &apos;ll never come up with anything original — if you &apos;re not prepared to be wrong .
( Laughter ) Actually , we lived in a place called Snitterfield , just outside Stratford , which is where Shakespeare &apos;s father was born .
Shakespeare being seven ?
I &apos;ve got two kids ; he &apos;s 21 now , my daughter &apos;s 16 .
He didn &apos;t want to come to Los Angeles .
( Laughter ) Truthfully , what happens is , as children grow up , we start to educate them progressively from the waist up .
If you were to visit education , as an alien , and say &quot; &quot; What &apos;s it for , public education ? &quot; &quot; I think you &apos;d have to conclude , if you look at the output , who really succeeds by this , who does everything that they should , who gets all the brownie points , who are the winners — I think you &apos;d have to conclude the whole purpose of public education throughout the world is to produce university professors .
They &apos;re just a form of life , another form of life .
( Laughter ) Waiting until it ends so they can go home and write a paper about it . ( Laughter )
And I didn &apos;t want one , frankly . ( Laughter ) But now kids with degrees are often heading home to carry on playing video games , because you need an MA where the previous job required a BA , and now you need a PhD for the other .
And it indicates the whole structure of education is shifting beneath our feet .
If you look at the interactions of a human brain , as we heard yesterday from a number of presentations , intelligence is wonderfully interactive .
The brain isn &apos;t divided into compartments .
In fact , creativity — which I define as the process of having original ideas that have value — more often than not comes about through the interaction of different disciplinary ways of seeing things .
By the way , there &apos;s a shaft of nerves that joins the two halves of the brain called the corpus callosum .
Because you are , aren &apos;t you ?
( Laughter ) No , she &apos;s good at some things , but if she &apos;s cooking , she &apos;s dealing with people on the phone , she &apos;s talking to the kids , she &apos;s painting the ceiling , she &apos;s doing open-heart surgery over here .
If I &apos;m cooking , the door is shut , the kids are out , the phone &apos;s on the hook , if she comes in I get annoyed .
I say , &quot; &quot; Terry , please , I &apos;m trying to fry an egg in here . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) &quot; Give me a break . &quot; ( Laughter )
I saw a great t-shirt recently , which said , &quot; &quot; If a man speaks his mind in a forest , and no woman hears him , is he still wrong ? &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) And the third thing about intelligence is , it &apos;s distinct .
And the school , in the &apos; 30s , wrote to her parents and said , &quot; We think Gillian has a learning disorder . &quot;
( Laughter ) People weren &apos;t aware they could have that . ( Laughter )
And when they got out , he said to her mother , &quot; &quot; Just stand and watch her . &quot; &quot; And the minute they left the room , she was on her feet , moving to the music .
And they watched for a few minutes and he turned to her mother and said , &quot; &quot; Mrs. Lynne , Gillian isn &apos;t sick ; she &apos;s a dancer .
Take her to a dance school . &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; What happened ? &quot; &quot; She said , &quot; &quot; She did . I can &apos;t tell you how wonderful it was .
We walked in this room and it was full of people like me .
People who had to move to think . &quot; &quot; Who had to move to think .
( Applause ) What I think it comes to is this : Al Gore spoke the other night about ecology and the revolution that was triggered by Rachel Carson .
I believe our only hope for the future is to adopt a new conception of human ecology , one in which we start to reconstitute our conception of the richness of human capacity .
Our education system has mined our minds in the way that we strip-mine the earth : for a particular commodity .
We have to rethink the fundamental principles on which we &apos;re educating our children .
And the only way we &apos;ll do it is by seeing our creative capacities for the richness they are and seeing our children for the hope that they are .
By the way — we may not see this future , but they will .
( Music ) ( Music ) ( Applause ) ( Applause )
I grew up on a steady diet of science fiction .
In high school , I took a bus to school an hour each way every day .
And I was always absorbed in a book , science fiction book , which took my mind to other worlds , and satisfied , in a narrative form , this insatiable sense of curiosity that I had .
And you know , that curiosity also manifested itself in the fact that whenever I wasn &apos;t in school I was out in the woods , hiking and taking &quot; &quot; samples &quot; &quot; — frogs and snakes and bugs and pond water — and bringing it back , looking at it under the microscope .
You know , I was a real science geek .
But it was all about trying to understand the world , understand the limits of possibility .
And my love of science fiction actually seemed mirrored in the world around me , because what was happening , this was in the late &apos; 60s , we were going to the moon , we were exploring the deep oceans .
Jacques Cousteau was coming into our living rooms with his amazing specials that showed us animals and places and a wondrous world that we could never really have previously imagined .
So , that seemed to resonate with the whole science fiction part of it .
And I was an artist .
I could draw . I could paint .
And I found that because there weren &apos;t video games and this saturation of CG movies and all of this imagery in the media landscape , I had to create these images in my head .
You know , we all did , as kids having to read a book , and through the author &apos;s description , put something on the movie screen in our heads .
And so , my response to this was to paint , to draw alien creatures , alien worlds , robots , spaceships , all that stuff .
I was endlessly getting busted in math class doodling behind the textbook .
That was — the creativity had to find its outlet somehow .
And an interesting thing happened : The Jacques Cousteau shows actually got me very excited about the fact that there was an alien world right here on Earth .
I might not really go to an alien world on a spaceship someday — that seemed pretty darn unlikely .
But that was a world I could really go to , right here on Earth , that was as rich and exotic as anything that I had imagined from reading these books .
So , I decided I was going to become a scuba diver at the age of 15 .
And the only problem with that was that I lived in a little village in Canada , 600 miles from the nearest ocean .
But I didn &apos;t let that daunt me .
I pestered my father until he finally found a scuba class in Buffalo , New York , right across the border from where we live .
And I actually got certified in a pool at a YMCA in the dead of winter in Buffalo , New York .
And I didn &apos;t see the ocean , a real ocean , for another two years , until we moved to California .
Since then , in the intervening 40 years , I &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , and 500 hours of that was in submersibles .
And I &apos;ve learned that that deep-ocean environment , and even the shallow oceans , are so rich with amazing life that really is beyond our imagination .
Nature &apos;s imagination is so boundless compared to our own meager human imagination .
I still , to this day , stand in absolute awe of what I see when I make these dives .
And my love affair with the ocean is ongoing , and just as strong as it ever was .
But when I chose a career as an adult , it was filmmaking .
And that seemed to be the best way to reconcile this urge I had to tell stories with my urges to create images .
And I was , as a kid , constantly drawing comic books , and so on .
So , filmmaking was the way to put pictures and stories together , and that made sense .
And of course the stories that I chose to tell were science fiction stories : &quot; &quot; Terminator , &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; Aliens &quot; &quot; and &quot; &quot; The Abyss . &quot; &quot; And with &quot; &quot; The Abyss , &quot; &quot; I was putting together my love of underwater and diving with filmmaking .
So , you know , merging the two passions .
Something interesting came out of &quot; &quot; The Abyss , &quot; &quot; which was that to solve a specific narrative problem on that film , which was to create this kind of liquid water creature , we actually embraced computer generated animation , CG .
And this resulted in the first soft-surface character , CG animation that was ever in a movie .
And even though the film didn &apos;t make any money — barely broke even , I should say — I witnessed something amazing , which is that the audience , the global audience , was mesmerized by this apparent magic .
You know , it &apos;s Arthur Clarke &apos;s law that any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic .
They were seeing something magical .
And so that got me very excited .
And I thought , &quot; &quot; Wow , this is something that needs to be embraced into the cinematic art . &quot; &quot; So , with &quot; &quot; Terminator 2 , &quot; &quot; which was my next film , we took that much farther .
Working with ILM , we created the liquid metal dude in that film . The success hung in the balance on whether that effect would work .
And it did , and we created magic again , and we had the same result with an audience — although we did make a little more money on that one .
So , drawing a line through those two dots of experience came to , &quot; &quot; This is going to be a whole new world , &quot; &quot; this was a whole new world of creativity for film artists .
So , I started a company with Stan Winston , my good friend Stan Winston , who is the premier make-up and creature designer at that time , and it was called Digital Domain .
And the concept of the company was that we would leapfrog past the analog processes of optical printers and so on , and we would go right to digital production .
And we actually did that and it gave us a competitive advantage for a while .
But we found ourselves lagging in the mid &apos; 90s in the creature and character design stuff that we had actually founded the company to do .
So , I wrote this piece called &quot; &quot; Avatar , &quot; &quot; which was meant to absolutely push the envelope of visual effects , of CG effects , beyond , with realistic human emotive characters generated in CG , and the main characters would all be in CG , and the world would be in CG .
And the envelope pushed back , and I was told by the folks at my company that we weren &apos;t going to be able to do this for a while .
So , I shelved it , and I made this other movie about a big ship that sinks .
( Laughter ) You know , I went and pitched it to the studio as &quot; &quot; &apos; Romeo and Juliet &apos; on a ship : &quot; &quot; It &apos;s going to be this epic romance , passionate film . &quot; &quot; Secretly , what I wanted to do was I wanted to dive to the real wreck of &quot; &quot; Titanic . &quot; &quot; And that &apos;s why I made the movie .
( Applause ) And that &apos;s the truth . Now , the studio didn &apos;t know that .
But I convinced them . I said , &quot; &quot; We &apos;re going to dive to the wreck . We &apos;re going to film it for real .
We &apos;ll be using it in the opening of the film .
It will be really important . It will be a great marketing hook . &quot; &quot; And I talked them into funding an expedition .
( Laughter ) Sounds crazy . But this goes back to that theme about your imagination creating a reality .
Because we actually created a reality where six months later , I find myself in a Russian submersible two and a half miles down in the north Atlantic , looking at the real Titanic through a view port .
Not a movie , not HD — for real .
( Applause ) Now , that blew my mind .
And it took a lot of preparation , we had to build cameras and lights and all kinds of things .
But , it struck me how much this dive , these deep dives , was like a space mission .
You know , where it was highly technical , and it required enormous planning .
You get in this capsule , you go down to this dark hostile environment where there is no hope of rescue if you can &apos;t get back by yourself .
And I thought like , &quot; &quot; Wow . I &apos;m like , living in a science fiction movie .
This is really cool . &quot; &quot; And so , I really got bitten by the bug of deep-ocean exploration .
Of course , the curiosity , the science component of it — it was everything . It was adventure , it was curiosity , it was imagination .
And it was an experience that Hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
Because , you know , I could imagine a creature and we could create a visual effect for it . But I couldn &apos;t imagine what I was seeing out that window .
As we did some of our subsequent expeditions , I was seeing creatures at hydrothermal vents and sometimes things that I had never seen before , sometimes things that no one had seen before , that actually were not described by science at the time that we saw them and imaged them .
So , I was completely smitten by this , and had to do more .
And so , I actually made a kind of curious decision .
After the success of &quot; &quot; Titanic , &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; OK , I &apos;m going to park my day job as a Hollywood movie maker , and I &apos;m going to go be a full-time explorer for a while . &quot; &quot; And so , we started planning these expeditions .
And we wound up going to the Bismark , and exploring it with robotic vehicles .
We went back to the Titanic wreck .
We took little bots that we had created that spooled a fiber optic .
And the idea was to go in and do an interior survey of that ship , which had never been done .
Nobody had ever looked inside the wreck . They didn &apos;t have the means to do it , so we created technology to do it .
So , you know , here I am now , on the deck of Titanic , sitting in a submersible , and looking out at planks that look much like this , where I knew that the band had played .
And I &apos;m flying a little robotic vehicle through the corridor of the ship .
When I say , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m operating it , &quot; &quot; but my mind is in the vehicle .
I felt like I was physically present inside the shipwreck of Titanic .
And it was the most surreal kind of deja vu experience I &apos;ve ever had , because I would know before I turned a corner what was going to be there before the lights of the vehicle actually revealed it , because I had walked the set for months when we were making the movie .
And the set was based as an exact replica on the blueprints of the ship .
So , it was this absolutely remarkable experience .
And it really made me realize that the telepresence experience — that you actually can have these robotic avatars , then your consciousness is injected into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
It was really , really quite profound .
And it may be a little bit of a glimpse as to what might be happening some decades out as we start to have cyborg bodies for exploration or for other means in many sort of post-human futures that I can imagine , as a science fiction fan .
So , having done these expeditions , and really beginning to appreciate what was down there , such as at the deep ocean vents where we had these amazing , amazing animals — they &apos;re basically aliens right here on Earth .
They live in an environment of chemosynthesis .
They don &apos;t survive on sunlight-based system the way we do .
And so , you &apos;re seeing animals that are living next to a 500-degree-Centigrade water plumes .
You think they can &apos;t possibly exist .
At the same time I was getting very interested in space science as well — again , it &apos;s the science fiction influence , as a kid .
And I wound up getting involved with the space community , really involved with NASA , sitting on the NASA advisory board , planning actual space missions , going to Russia , going through the pre-cosmonaut biomedical protocols , and all these sorts of things , to actually go and fly to the international space station with our 3D camera systems .
And this was fascinating .
But what I wound up doing was bringing space scientists with us into the deep .
And taking them down so that they had access — astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in these extreme environments — taking them down to the vents , and letting them see , and take samples and test instruments , and so on .
So , here we were making documentary films , but actually doing science , and actually doing space science .
I &apos;d completely closed the loop between being the science fiction fan , you know , as a kid , and doing this stuff for real .
And you know , along the way in this journey of discovery , I learned a lot .
I learned a lot about science . But I also learned a lot about leadership .
Now you think director has got to be a leader , leader of , captain of the ship , and all that sort of thing .
I didn &apos;t really learn about leadership until I did these expeditions .
Because I had to , at a certain point , say , &quot; &quot; What am I doing out here ?
Why am I doing this ? What do I get out of it ? &quot; &quot; We don &apos;t make money at these damn shows .
We barely break even . There is no fame in it .
People sort of think I went away between &quot; &quot; Titanic &quot; &quot; and &quot; &quot; Avatar &quot; &quot; and was buffing my nails someplace , sitting at the beach .
Made all these films , made all these documentary films for a very limited audience .
No fame , no glory , no money . What are you doing ?
You &apos;re doing it for the task itself , for the challenge — and the ocean is the most challenging environment there is — for the thrill of discovery , and for that strange bond that happens when a small group of people form a tightly knit team .
Because we would do these things with 10 , 12 people , working for years at a time , sometimes at sea for two , three months at a time .
And in that bond , you realize that the most important thing is the respect that you have for them and that they have for you , that you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to someone else .
When you come back to the shore and you say , &quot; &quot; We had to do this , and the fiber optic , and the attentuation , and the this and the that , all the technology of it , and the difficulty , the human-performance aspects of working at sea , &quot; &quot; you can &apos;t explain it to people . It &apos;s that thing that maybe cops have , or people in combat that have gone through something together and they know they can never explain it .
Creates a bond , creates a bond of respect .
So , when I came back to make my next movie , which was &quot; &quot; Avatar , &quot; &quot; I tried to apply that same principle of leadership , which is that you respect your team , and you earn their respect in return .
And it really changed the dynamic .
So , here I was again with a small team , in uncharted territory , doing &quot; &quot; Avatar , &quot; &quot; coming up with new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
Tremendously exciting .
Tremendously challenging .
And we became a family , over a four-and-half year period .
And it completely changed how I do movies .
So , people have commented on how , &quot; &quot; Well , you know , you brought back the ocean organisms and put them on the planet of Pandora . &quot; &quot; To me , it was more of a fundamental way of doing business , the process itself , that changed as a result of that .
So , what can we synthesize out of all this ?
You know , what are the lessons learned ?
Well , I think number one is curiosity .
It &apos;s the most powerful thing you own .
Imagination is a force that can actually manifest a reality .
And the respect of your team is more important than all the laurels in the world .
I have young filmmakers come up to me and say , &quot; &quot; Give me some advice for doing this . &quot; &quot; And I say , &quot; &quot; Don &apos;t put limitations on yourself .
Other people will do that for you — don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet against yourself , and take risks . &quot; &quot; NASA has this phrase that they like : &quot; Failure is not an option . &quot;
But failure has to be an option in art and in exploration , because it &apos;s a leap of faith .
And no important endeavor that required innovation was done without risk .
You have to be willing to take those risks .
So , that &apos;s the thought I would leave you with , is that in whatever you &apos;re doing , failure is an option , but fear is not . Thank you .
( Applause )
Can I say how delighted I am to be away from the calm of Westminster and Whitehall ? ( Laughter ) This is Kim , a nine-year-old Vietnam girl , her back ruined by napalm , and she awakened the conscience of the nation of America to begin to end the Vietnam War .
This is Birhan , who was the Ethiopian girl who launched Live Aid in the 1980s , 15 minutes away from death when she was rescued , and that picture of her being rescued is one that went round the world .
This is Tiananmen Square .
A man before a tank became a picture that became a symbol for the whole world of resistance .
This next is the Sudanese girl , a few moments from death , a vulture hovering in the background , a picture that went round the world and shocked people into action on poverty .
This is Neda , the Iranian girl who was shot while at a demonstration with her father in Iran only a few weeks ago , and she is now the focus , rightly so , of the YouTube generation .
And what do all these pictures and events have in common ?
What they have in common is what we see unlocks what we cannot see .
What we see unlocks the invisible ties and bonds of sympathy that bring us together to become a human community .
What these pictures demonstrate is that we do feel the pain of others , however distantly .
What I think these pictures demonstrate is that we do believe in something bigger than ourselves .
What these pictures demonstrate is that there is a moral sense across all religions , across all faiths , across all continents — a moral sense that not only do we share the pain of others , and believe in something bigger than ourselves but we have a duty to act when we see things that are wrong that need righted , see injuries that need to be corrected , see problems that need to be rectified .
There is a story about Olof Palme , the Swedish Prime Minister , going to see Ronald Reagan in America in the 1980s .
Before he arrived Ronald Reagan said — and he was the Swedish Social Democratic Prime Minister — &quot; Isn ’ t this man a communist ? &quot;
The reply was , &quot; &quot; No , Mr President , he ’ s an anti-communist . &quot; &quot; And Ronald Reagan said , &quot; &quot; I don ’ t care what kind of communist he is ! &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Ronald Reagan asked Olof Palme , the Social Democratic Prime Minister of Sweden , &quot; Well , what do you believe in ? Do you want to abolish the rich ? &quot;
He said , &quot; &quot; No , I want to abolish the poor . &quot; &quot; Our responsibility is to let everyone have the chance to realize their potential to the full .
I believe there is a moral sense and a global ethic that commands attention from people of every religion and every faith , and people of no faith .
But I think what &apos;s new is that we now have the capacity to communicate instantaneously across frontiers right across the world .
We now have the capacity to find common ground with people who we will never meet , but who we will meet through the Internet and through all the modern means of communication ; that we now have the capacity to organize and take collective action together to deal with the problem or an injustice that we want to deal with ; and I believe that this makes this a unique age in human history , and it is the start of what I would call the creation of a truly global society .
Go back 200 years when the slave trade was under pressure from William Wilberforce and all the protesters .
They protested across Britain .
They won public opinion over a long period of time .
But it took 24 years for the campaign to be successful .
What could they have done with the pictures that they could have shown if they were able to use the modern means of communication to win people ’ s hearts and minds ?
Or if you take Eglantyne Jebb , the woman who created Save the Children 90 years ago .
She was so appalled by what was happening in Austria as a result of the First World War and what was happening to children who were part of the defeated families of Austria , that in Britain she wanted to take action , but she had to go house to house , leaflet to leaflet , to get people to attend a rally in the Royal Albert Hall that eventually gave birth to Save the Children , an international organization that is now fully recognized as one of the great institutions in our land and in the world .
But what more could she have done if she ’ d had the modern means of communications available to her to create a sense that the injustice that people saw had to be acted upon immediately ?
Now look at what ’ s happened in the last 10 years .
In Philippines in 2001 , President Estrada — a million people texted each other about the corruption of that regime , eventually brought it down and it was , of course , called the &quot; &quot; coup de text . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Then you have in Zimbabwe the first election under Robert Mugabe a year ago .
Because people were able to take mobile phone photographs of what was happening at the polling stations , it was impossible for that Premier to fix that election in the way that he wanted to do .
Or take Burma and the monks that were blogging out , a country that nobody knew anything about that was happening , until these blogs told the world that there was a repression , meaning that lives were being lost and people were being persecuted and Aung San Suu Kyi , who is one of the great prisoners of conscience of the world , had to be listened to .
Then take Iran itself , and what people are doing today : following what happened to Neda , people who are preventing the security services of Iran finding those people who are blogging out of Iran , any by everybody who is blogging , changing their address to Tehran , Iran , and making it difficult for the security services .
Take , therefore , what modern technology is capable of : the power of our moral sense allied to the power of communications and our ability to organize internationally .
That , in my view , gives us the first opportunity as a community to fundamentally change the world .
Foreign policy can never be the same again . It cannot be run by elites ; it ’ s got to be run by listening to the public opinions of peoples who are blogging , who are communicating with each other around the world .
200 years ago the problem we had to solve was slavery .
150 years ago I suppose the main problem in a country like ours was how young people , children , had the right to education .
100 years ago in most countries in Europe , the pressure was for the right to vote .
50 years ago the pressure was for the right to social security and welfare .
In the last 50-60 years we have seen fascism , anti-Semitism , racism , apartheid , discrimination on the basis of sex and gender and sexuality ; all these have come under pressure because of the campaigns that have been run by people to change the world .
I was with Nelson Mandela a year ago , when he was in London .
I was at a concert that he was attending to mark his birthday and for the creation of new resources for his foundation .
I was sitting next to Nelson Mandela — I was very privileged to do so — when Amy Winehouse came onto the stage . ( Laughter ) And Nelson Mandela was quite surprised at the appearance of the singer and I was explaining to him at the time who she was .
Amy Winehouse said , &quot; &quot; Nelson Mandela and I have a lot in common .
My husband too has spent a long time in prison . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Nelson Mandela then went down to the stage and he summarized the challenge for us all .
He said in his lifetime he had climbed a great mountain , the mountain of challenging and then defeating racial oppression and defeating apartheid .
He said that there was a greater challenge ahead , the challenge of poverty , of climate change — global challenges that needed global solutions and needed the creation of a truly global society .
We are the first generation which is in a position to do this .
Combine the power of a global ethic with the power of our ability to communicate and organize globally , with the challenges that we now face , most of which are global in their nature .
Climate change cannot be solved in one country , but has got to be solved by the world working together .
A financial crisis , just as we have seen , could not be solved by America alone or Europe alone ; it needed the world to work together .
Take the problems of security and terrorism and , equally , the problem of human rights and development : they cannot be solved by Africa alone ; they cannot be solved by America or Europe alone .
We cannot solve these problems unless we work together .
So the great project of our generation , it seems to me , is to build for the first time , out of a global ethic and our global ability to communicate and organize together , a truly global society , built on that ethic but with institutions that can serve that global society and make for a different future .
We have now , and are the first generation with , the power to do this .
Take climate change . Is it not absolutely scandalous that we have a situation where we know that there is a climate change problem , where we know also that that will mean we have to give more resources to the poorest countries to deal with that , when we want to create a global carbon market , but there is no global institution that people have been able to agree upon to deal with this problem ?
One of the things that has got to come out of Copenhagen in the next few months is an agreement that there will be a global environmental institution that is able to deal with the problems of persuading the whole of the world to move along a climate-change agenda .
( Applause ) One of the reasons why an institution is not in itself enough is that we have got to persuade people around the world to change their behavior as well , so you need that global ethic of fairness and responsibility across the generations .
Take the financial crisis .
If people in poorer countries can be hit by a crisis that starts in New York or starts in the sub-prime market of the United States of America .
If people can find that that sub-prime product has been transferred across nations many , many times until it ends up in banks in Iceland or the rest in Britain , and people &apos;s ordinary savings are affected by it , then you cannot rely on a system of national supervision .
You need in the long run for stability , for economic growth , for jobs , as well as for financial stability , global economic institutions that make sure that growth to be sustained has to be shared , and are built on the principle that the prosperity of this world is indivisible .
So another challenge for our generation is to create global institutions that reflect our ideas of fairness and responsibility , not the ideas that were the basis of the last stage of financial development over these recent years .
Then take development and take the partnership we need between our countries and the rest of the world , the poorest part of the world .
We do not have the basis of a proper partnership for the future , and yet , out of people ’ s desire for a global ethic and a global society that can be done .
I have just been talking to the President of Sierra Leone .
This is a country of six and a half million people , but it has only 80 doctors ; it has 200 nurses ; it has 120 midwives .
You cannot begin to build a healthcare system for six million people with such limited resources .
Or take the girl I met when I was in Tanzania , a girl called Miriam .
She was 11 years old ; her parents had both died from AIDS , her mother and then her father .
She was an AIDS orphan being handed across different extended families to be cared for .
She herself was suffering from HIV ; she was suffering from tuberculosis .
I met her in a field , she was ragged , she had no shoes .
When you looked in her eyes , any girl at the age of eleven is looking forward to the future , but there was an unreachable sadness in that girl ’ s eyes and if I could have translated that to the rest of the world for that moment , I believe that all the work that it had done for the global HIV / AIDS fund would be rewarded by people being prepared to make donations .
We must then build a proper relationship between the richest and the poorest countries based on our desire that they are able to fend for themselves with the investment that is necessary in their agriculture , so that Africa is not a net importer of food , but an exporter of food .
Take the problems of human rights and the problems of security in so many countries around the world .
Burma is in chains , Zimbabwe is a human tragedy , in Sudan thousands of people have died unnecessarily for wars that we could prevent .
In the Rwanda Children &apos;s Museum , there is a photograph of a 10-year-old boy and the Children &apos;s Museum is commemorating the lives that were lost in the Rwandan genocide where a million people died .
There is a photograph of a boy called David .
Beside that photograph there is the information about his life .
It said &quot; &quot; David , age 10 . &quot; &quot; David : ambition to be a doctor .
Favorite sport : football . What did he enjoy most ?
Making people laugh .
How did he die ?
Tortured to death .
Last words said to his mother who was also tortured to death : &quot; Don &apos;t worry . The United Nations are coming . &quot;
And we never did .
And that young boy believed our promises that we would help people in difficulty in Rwanda , and we never did .
So we have got to create in this world also institutions for peacekeeping and humanitarian aid , but also for reconstruction and security for some of the conflict-ridden states of the world .
So my argument today is basically this .
We have the means by which we could create a truly global society .
The institutions of this global society can be created by our endeavors .
That global ethic can infuse the fairness and responsibility that is necessary for these institutions to work , but we should not lose the chance in this generation , in this decade in particular , with President Obama in America , with other people working with us around the world , to create global institutions for the environment , and for finance , and for security and for development , that make sense of our responsibility to other peoples , our desire to bind the world together , and our need to tackle problems that everybody knows exist .
It is said that in Ancient Rome that when Cicero spoke to his audiences , people used to turn to each other and say about Cicero , &quot; &quot; Great speech . &quot; &quot; But it is said that in Ancient Greece when Demosthenes spoke to his audiences , people turned to each other and didn ’ t say &quot; &quot; Great speech . &quot; &quot; They said , &quot; &quot; Let &apos;s march . &quot; &quot; We should be marching towards a global society .
Thank you .
( Applause )
Imagine , if you will — a gift .
I &apos;d like for you to picture it in your mind .
It &apos;s not too big — about the size of a golf ball .
So envision what it looks like all wrapped up .
But before I show you what &apos;s inside , I will tell you , it &apos;s going to do incredible things for you .
It will bring all of your family together .
You will feel loved and appreciated like never before and reconnect with friends and acquaintances you haven &apos;t heard from in years .
Adoration and admiration will overwhelm you .
It will recalibrate what &apos;s most important in your life .
It will redefine your sense of spirituality and faith .
You &apos;ll have a new understanding and trust in your body .
You &apos;ll have unsurpassed vitality and energy .
You &apos;ll expand your vocabulary , meet new people , and you &apos;ll have a healthier lifestyle .
And get this — you &apos;ll have an eight-week vacation of doing absolutely nothing .
You &apos;ll eat countless gourmet meals .
Flowers will arrive by the truckload .
People will say to you , &quot; You look great . Have you had any work done ? &quot;
And you &apos;ll have a lifetime supply of good drugs .
You &apos;ll be challenged , inspired , motivated and humbled .
Your life will have new meaning .
Peace , health , serenity , happiness , nirvana .
The price ?
$ 55,000 , and that &apos;s an incredible deal .
By now I know you &apos;re dying to know what it is and where you can get one .
Does Amazon carry it ?
Does it have the Apple logo on it ?
Is there a waiting list ?
Not likely .
This gift came to me about five months ago .
It looked more like this when it was all wrapped up — not quite so pretty .
And this , and then this .
It was a rare gem — a brain tumor , hemangioblastoma — the gift that keeps on giving .
And while I &apos;m okay now , I wouldn &apos;t wish this gift for you .
I &apos;m not sure you &apos;d want it .
But I wouldn &apos;t change my experience .
It profoundly altered my life in ways I didn &apos;t expect in all the ways I just shared with you .
So the next time you &apos;re faced with something that &apos;s unexpected , unwanted and uncertain , consider that it just may be a gift .
( Applause )
I &apos;m a storyteller .
And I would like to tell you a few personal stories about what I like to call &quot; &quot; the danger of the single story . &quot; &quot; I grew up on a university campus in eastern Nigeria .
My mother says that I started reading at the age of two , although I think four is probably close to the truth .
So I was an early reader , and what I read were British and American children &apos;s books .
I was also an early writer , and when I began to write , at about the age of seven , stories in pencil with crayon illustrations that my poor mother was obligated to read , I wrote exactly the kinds of stories I was reading : All my characters were white and blue-eyed , they played in the snow , they ate apples , ( Laughter ) and they talked a lot about the weather , how lovely it was that the sun had come out . ( Laughter )
Now , this despite the fact that I lived in Nigeria .
I had never been outside Nigeria .
We didn &apos;t have snow , we ate mangoes , and we never talked about the weather , because there was no need to .
My characters also drank a lot of ginger beer , because the characters in the British books I read drank ginger beer .
Never mind that I had no idea what ginger beer was .
( Laughter ) And for many years afterwards , I would have a desperate desire to taste ginger beer .
But that is another story .
What this demonstrates , I think , is how impressionable and vulnerable we are in the face of a story , particularly as children .
Because all I had read were books in which characters were foreign , I had become convinced that books by their very nature had to have foreigners in them and had to be about things with which I could not personally identify .
Now , things changed when I discovered African books .
There weren &apos;t many of them available , and they weren &apos;t quite as easy to find as the foreign books .
But because of writers like Chinua Achebe and Camara Laye , I went through a mental shift in my perception of literature .
I realized that people like me , girls with skin the color of chocolate , whose kinky hair could not form ponytails , could also exist in literature .
I started to write about things I recognized .
Now , I loved those American and British books I read .
They stirred my imagination . They opened up new worlds for me .
But the unintended consequence was that I did not know that people like me could exist in literature .
So what the discovery of African writers did for me was this : It saved me from having a single story of what books are .
I come from a conventional , middle-class Nigerian family .
My father was a professor .
My mother was an administrator .
And so we had , as was the norm , live-in domestic help , who would often come from nearby rural villages .
So , the year I turned eight , we got a new house boy .
His name was Fide .
The only thing my mother told us about him was that his family was very poor .
My mother sent yams and rice , and our old clothes , to his family .
And when I didn &apos;t finish my dinner , my mother would say , &quot; Finish your food ! Don &apos;t you know ? People like Fide &apos;s family have nothing . &quot;
So I felt enormous pity for Fide &apos;s family .
Then one Saturday , we went to his village to visit , and his mother showed us a beautifully patterned basket made of dyed raffia that his brother had made .
I was startled .
It had not occurred to me that anybody in his family could actually make something .
All I had heard about them was how poor they were , so that it had become impossible for me to see them as anything else but poor .
Their poverty was my single story of them .
Years later , I thought about this when I left Nigeria to go to university in the United States .
I was 19 .
My American roommate was shocked by me .
She asked where I had learned to speak English so well , and was confused when I said that Nigeria happened to have English as its official language .
She asked if she could listen to what she called my &quot; &quot; tribal music , &quot; &quot; and was consequently very disappointed when I produced my tape of Mariah Carey .
( Laughter ) She assumed that I did not know how to use a stove .
What struck me was this : She had felt sorry for me even before she saw me .
Her default position toward me , as an African , was a kind of patronizing , well-meaning pity .
My roommate had a single story of Africa : a single story of catastrophe .
In this single story , there was no possibility of Africans being similar to her in any way , no possibility of feelings more complex than pity , no possibility of a connection as human equals .
I must say that before I went to the U.S. , I didn &apos;t consciously identify as African .
But in the U.S. , whenever Africa came up , people turned to me .
Never mind that I knew nothing about places like Namibia .
But I did come to embrace this new identity , and in many ways I think of myself now as African .
Although I still get quite irritable when Africa is referred to as a country , the most recent example being my otherwise wonderful flight from Lagos two days ago , in which there was an announcement on the Virgin flight about the charity work in &quot; &quot; India , Africa and other countries . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) So , after I had spent some years in the U.S. as an African , I began to understand my roommate &apos;s response to me .
If I had not grown up in Nigeria , and if all I knew about Africa were from popular images , I too would think that Africa was a place of beautiful landscapes , beautiful animals , and incomprehensible people , fighting senseless wars , dying of poverty and AIDS , unable to speak for themselves and waiting to be saved by a kind , white foreigner .
I would see Africans in the same way that I , as a child , had seen Fide &apos;s family .
This single story of Africa ultimately comes , I think , from Western literature .
Now , here is a quote from the writing of a London merchant called John Lok , who sailed to west Africa in 1561 and kept a fascinating account of his voyage .
After referring to the black Africans as &quot; &quot; beasts who have no houses , &quot; &quot; he writes , &quot; &quot; They are also people without heads , having their mouth and eyes in their breasts . &quot; &quot; Now , I &apos;ve laughed every time I &apos;ve read this .
And one must admire the imagination of John Lok .
But what is important about his writing is that it represents the beginning of a tradition of telling African stories in the West : A tradition of Sub-Saharan Africa as a place of negatives , of difference , of darkness , of people who , in the words of the wonderful poet Rudyard Kipling , are &quot; &quot; half devil , half child . &quot; &quot; And so , I began to realize that my American roommate must have throughout her life seen and heard different versions of this single story , as had a professor , who once told me that my novel was not &quot; &quot; authentically African . &quot; &quot; Now , I was quite willing to contend that there were a number of things wrong with the novel ,
that it had failed in a number of places , but I had not quite imagined that it had failed at achieving something called African authenticity .
In fact , I did not know what African authenticity was .
The professor told me that my characters were too much like him , an educated and middle-class man .
My characters drove cars .
They were not starving .
Therefore they were not authentically African .
But I must quickly add that I too am just as guilty in the question of the single story .
A few years ago , I visited Mexico from the U.S.
The political climate in the U.S. at the time was tense , and there were debates going on about immigration .
And , as often happens in America , immigration became synonymous with Mexicans .
There were endless stories of Mexicans as people who were fleecing the healthcare system , sneaking across the border , being arrested at the border , that sort of thing .
I remember walking around on my first day in Guadalajara , watching the people going to work , rolling up tortillas in the marketplace , smoking , laughing .
I remember first feeling slight surprise .
And then , I was overwhelmed with shame .
I realized that I had been so immersed in the media coverage of Mexicans that they had become one thing in my mind , the abject immigrant .
I had bought into the single story of Mexicans and I could not have been more ashamed of myself .
So that is how to create a single story , show a people as one thing , as only one thing , over and over again , and that is what they become .
It is impossible to talk about the single story without talking about power .
There is a word , an Igbo word , that I think about whenever I think about the power structures of the world , and it is &quot; &quot; nkali . &quot; &quot; It &apos;s a noun that loosely translates to &quot; &quot; to be greater than another . &quot; &quot; Like our economic and political worlds , stories too are defined by the principle of nkali : How they are told , who tells them , when they &apos;re told , how many stories are told , are really dependent on power .
Power is the ability not just to tell the story of another person , but to make it the definitive story of that person .
The Palestinian poet Mourid Barghouti writes that if you want to dispossess a people , the simplest way to do it is to tell their story and to start with , &quot; &quot; secondly . &quot; &quot; Start the story with the arrows of the Native Americans , and not with the arrival of the British , and you have an entirely different story .
Start the story with the failure of the African state , and not with the colonial creation of the African state , and you have an entirely different story .
I recently spoke at a university where a student told me that it was such a shame that Nigerian men were physical abusers like the father character in my novel .
I told him that I had just read a novel called &quot; &quot; American Psycho &quot; &quot; — ( Laughter ) — and that it was such a shame that young Americans were serial murderers . ( Laughter )
( Applause ) Now , obviously I said this in a fit of mild irritation . ( Laughter )
But it would never have occurred to me to think that just because I had read a novel in which a character was a serial killer that he was somehow representative of all Americans .
This is not because I am a better person than that student , but because of America &apos;s cultural and economic power , I had many stories of America .
I had read Tyler and Updike and Steinbeck and Gaitskill .
I did not have a single story of America .
When I learned , some years ago , that writers were expected to have had really unhappy childhoods to be successful , I began to think about how I could invent horrible things my parents had done to me .
( Laughter ) But the truth is that I had a very happy childhood , full of laughter and love , in a very close-knit family .
But I also had grandfathers who died in refugee camps .
My cousin Polle died because he could not get adequate healthcare .
One of my closest friends , Okoloma , died in a plane crash because our fire trucks did not have water .
I grew up under repressive military governments that devalued education , so that sometimes , my parents were not paid their salaries .
And so , as a child , I saw jam disappear from the breakfast table , then margarine disappeared , then bread became too expensive , then milk became rationed .
And most of all , a kind of normalized political fear invaded our lives .
All of these stories make me who I am .
But to insist on only these negative stories is to flatten my experience and to overlook the many other stories that formed me .
The single story creates stereotypes , and the problem with stereotypes is not that they are untrue , but that they are incomplete .
They make one story become the only story .
Of course , Africa is a continent full of catastrophes : There are immense ones , such as the horrific rapes in Congo and depressing ones , such as the fact that 5,000 people apply for one job vacancy in Nigeria .
But there are other stories that are not about catastrophe , and it is very important , it is just as important , to talk about them .
I &apos;ve always felt that it is impossible to engage properly with a place or a person without engaging with all of the stories of that place and that person .
The consequence of the single story is this : It robs people of dignity .
It makes our recognition of our equal humanity difficult .
It emphasizes how we are different rather than how we are similar .
So what if before my Mexican trip , I had followed the immigration debate from both sides , the U.S. and the Mexican ?
What if my mother had told us that Fide &apos;s family was poor and hardworking ?
What if we had an African television network that broadcast diverse African stories all over the world ?
What the Nigerian writer Chinua Achebe calls &quot; &quot; a balance of stories . &quot; &quot; What if my roommate knew about my Nigerian publisher , Muhtar Bakare , a remarkable man who left his job in a bank to follow his dream and start a publishing house ?
Now , the conventional wisdom was that Nigerians don &apos;t read literature .
He disagreed .
He felt that people who could read , would read , if you made literature affordable and available to them .
Shortly after he published my first novel , I went to a TV station in Lagos to do an interview , and a woman who worked there as a messenger came up to me and said , &quot; &quot; I really liked your novel . I didn &apos;t like the ending .
Now , you must write a sequel , and this is what will happen ... &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) And she went on to tell me what to write in the sequel .
I was not only charmed , I was very moved .
Here was a woman , part of the ordinary masses of Nigerians , who were not supposed to be readers .
She had not only read the book , but she had taken ownership of it and felt justified in telling me what to write in the sequel .
Now , what if my roommate knew about my friend Funmi Iyanda , a fearless woman who hosts a TV show in Lagos , and is determined to tell the stories that we prefer to forget ?
What if my roommate knew about the heart procedure that was performed in the Lagos hospital last week ?
What if my roommate knew about contemporary Nigerian music , talented people singing in English and Pidgin , and Igbo and Yoruba and Ijo , mixing influences from Jay-Z to Fela to Bob Marley to their grandfathers .
What if my roommate knew about the female lawyer who recently went to court in Nigeria to challenge a ridiculous law that required women to get their husband &apos;s consent before renewing their passports ?
What if my roommate knew about Nollywood , full of innovative people making films despite great technical odds , films so popular that they really are the best example of Nigerians consuming what they produce ?
What if my roommate knew about my wonderfully ambitious hair braider , who has just started her own business selling hair extensions ?
Or about the millions of other Nigerians who start businesses and sometimes fail , but continue to nurse ambition ?
Every time I am home I am confronted with the usual sources of irritation for most Nigerians : our failed infrastructure , our failed government , but also by the incredible resilience of people who thrive despite the government , rather than because of it .
I teach writing workshops in Lagos every summer , and it is amazing to me how many people apply , how many people are eager to write , to tell stories .
My Nigerian publisher and I have just started a non-profit called Farafina Trust , and we have big dreams of building libraries and refurbishing libraries that already exist and providing books for state schools that don &apos;t have anything in their libraries , and also of organizing lots and lots of workshops , in reading and writing , for all the people who are eager to tell our many stories .
Stories matter .
Many stories matter .
Stories have been used to dispossess and to malign , but stories can also be used to empower and to humanize .
Stories can break the dignity of a people , but stories can also repair that broken dignity .
The American writer Alice Walker wrote this about her Southern relatives who had moved to the North .
She introduced them to a book about the Southern life that they had left behind .
&quot; &quot; They sat around , reading the book themselves , listening to me read the book , and a kind of paradise was regained . &quot; &quot; I would like to end with this thought : That when we reject the single story , when we realize that there is never a single story about any place , we regain a kind of paradise .
Thank you .
( Applause )
( Applause ) ( Music ) ( Applause )
My job is to design , build and study robots that communicate with people .
I &apos;m not using this phrase metaphorically — the ceiling actually collapsed one day in our living room .
One of them was that when you want to arouse emotions , it doesn &apos;t matter so much how something looks ; it &apos;s all in the motion , in the timing of how the thing moves .
He actually did the weasel in &quot; &quot; Ice Age . &quot; &quot; And he said , &quot; &quot; As an animator , you &apos;re not a director — you &apos;re an actor . &quot; &quot; So , if you want to find the right motion for a character , don &apos;t think about it — go use your body to find it .
( Laughter ) I wanted it to be less of a mechanical structure giving me light , and more of a helpful , kind of quiet apprentice that &apos;s always there when you need it and doesn &apos;t really interfere .
Just laying there , eyes glazed over ! &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) But , moving in a graceful way is just one building block of this whole structure called human-robot interaction .
But I wanted my robot to be less of a chess player , and more like a doer that just clicks and works together .
So I made my second horrible career choice : I decided to study acting for a semester .
I actually participated in a play — I hope there ’ s no video of that around still .
I went back to my office , I wrote this paper , which I never really published , called &quot; &quot; Acting Lessons for Artificial Intelligence . &quot; &quot; And I even took another month to do what was then the first theater play with a human and a robot acting together .
So I worked for quite a long time on these models and I implemented them on a number of robots .
It &apos;s sort of like a game .
And it &apos;s a little bit like what you might see actors do when they try to mirror each other to find the right synchrony between them .
And then , I did another experiment , and I got people off the street to use the robotic desk lamp , and try out this idea of embodied artificial intelligence .
The robot is the same lamp that you saw , and I put two brains in it .
For one half of the people , I put in a brain that &apos;s kind of the traditional , calculated robotic brain .
It sometimes acts without knowing everything it has to know .
It sometimes makes mistakes and corrects them .
And I had them do this very tedious task that took almost 20 minutes , and they had to work together , somehow simulating , like , a factory job of repetitively doing the same thing .
They even called it &quot; &quot; he &quot; &quot; and &quot; &quot; she , &quot; &quot; whereas people with the calculated brain called it &quot; &quot; it , &quot; &quot; and nobody ever called it &quot; &quot; he &quot; &quot; or &quot; &quot; she . &quot; &quot; When they talked about it after the task , with the adventurous brain , they said , &quot; &quot; By the end , we were good friends and high-fived mentally . &quot; &quot; Whatever that means .
( Laughter ) Sounds painful .
It only did what it was supposed to do and nothing more , which is almost what people expect robots to do , so I was surprised that people had higher expectations of robots than what anybody in robotics thought robots should be doing .
And in a way , I thought , maybe it &apos;s time — just like method acting changed the way people thought about acting in the 19th century , from going from the very calculated , planned way of behaving , to a more intuitive , risk-taking , embodied way of behaving — maybe it &apos;s time for robots to have the same kind of revolution .
But I thought , if I use the same ideas I used in the theater play and in the teamwork studies , maybe I can make the robots jam together like a band .
And then , look how the human musician also responds to what the robot is doing and picking up from its behavior , and at some point can even be surprised by what the robot came up with .
And I started designing a socially expressive head for the robot .
The head doesn ’ t actually touch the marimba , it just expresses what the music is like .
I think .
So we ended up actually getting the money to build this robot , which was nice .
I &apos;m going to show you now the same kind of performance , this time with a socially expressive head .
And notice one thing — how the robot is really showing us the beat it &apos;s picking up from the human , while also giving the human a sense that the robot knows what it &apos;s doing .
And also how it changes the way it moves as soon as it starts its own solo .
( Music ) Now it &apos;s looking at me , showing that it &apos;s listening . ( Music )
And this time the robot communicates with its body when it &apos;s busy doing its own thing , and when it &apos;s ready to coordinate the final chord with me .
( Music ) ( Music ending ) ( Final chord ) ( Applause ) Thanks .
This time it wasn &apos;t a desk lamp , it was a speaker dock , one of those things you plug your smartphone in .
And so again , here are some animation tests from an early stage .
( Laughter ) And this is what the final product looked like .
( Music ) ( Music ends ) So , a lot of bobbing heads .
( Applause ) A lot of bobbing heads in the audience , so we can still see robots influence people .
And it &apos;s not just fun and games .
I think one of the reasons I care so much about robots that use their body to communicate and use their body to move is — I &apos;m going to let you in on a little secret we roboticists are hiding — is that every one of you is going to be living with a robot at some point in your life .
Somewhere in your future , there will be a robot in your life .
Maybe they should be able to anticipate what you &apos;re about to do .
And maybe as humans , robots that are a little less than perfect are just perfect for us .
I &apos;m a lexicographer .
I make dictionaries .
And my job as a lexicographer is to try to put all the words possible into the dictionary .
My job is not to decide what a word is ; that is your job .
Everybody who speaks English decides together what &apos;s a word and what &apos;s not a word .
Every language is just a group of people who agree to understand each other .
Now , sometimes when people are trying to decide whether a word is good or bad , they don &apos;t really have a good reason .
So they say something like , &quot; &quot; Because grammar ! &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) I don &apos;t actually really care about grammar too much — don &apos;t tell anybody .
But the word &quot; &quot; grammar , &quot; &quot; actually , there are two kinds of grammar .
There &apos;s the kind of grammar that lives inside your brain , and if you &apos;re a native speaker of a language or a good speaker of a language , it &apos;s the unconscious rules that you follow when you speak that language .
And this is what you learn when you learn a language as a child .
And here &apos;s an example : This is a wug , right ?
It &apos;s a wug .
Now there is another one .
There are two of these .
There are two ...
Audience : Wugs .
Erin McKean : Exactly ! You know how to make the plural of wug .
That rule lives in your brain .
You never had to be taught this rule , you just understand it .
This is an experiment that was invented by a professor at &#91; Boston University &#93; named Jean Berko Gleason back in 1958 .
So we &apos;ve been talking about this for a long time .
Now , these kinds of natural rules that exist in your brain , they &apos;re not like traffic laws , they &apos;re more like laws of nature .
And nobody has to remind you to obey a law of nature , right ?
When you leave the house in the morning , your mom doesn &apos;t say , &quot; &quot; Hey , honey , I think it &apos;s going to be cold , take a hoodie , don &apos;t forget to obey the law of gravity . &quot; &quot; Nobody says this .
Now , there are other rules that are more about manners than they are about nature .
So you can think of a word as like a hat .
Once you know how hats work , nobody has to tell you , &quot; &quot; Don &apos;t wear hats on your feet . &quot; &quot; What they have to tell you is , &quot; &quot; Can you wear hats inside ?
Who gets to wear a hat ?
What are the kinds of hats you get to wear ? &quot; &quot; Those are more of the second kind of grammar , which linguists often call usage , as opposed to grammar .
Now , sometimes people use this kind of rules-based grammar to discourage people from making up words .
And I think that is , well , stupid .
So , for example , people are always telling you , &quot; Be creative , make new music , do art , invent things , science and technology . &quot;
But when it comes to words , they &apos;re like , &quot; Don &apos;t ! No . Creativity stops right here , whippersnappers . Give it a rest . &quot;
( Laughter ) But that makes no sense to me .
Words are great . We should have more of them .
I want you to make as many new words as possible .
And I &apos;m going to tell you six ways that you can use to make new words in English .
The first way is the simplest way .
Basically , steal them from other languages .
&#91; &quot; &quot; Go rob other people &quot; &quot; &#93; ( Laughter ) Linguists call this borrowing , but we never give the words back , so I &apos;m just going to be honest and call it stealing .
We usually take words for things that we like , like delicious food .
We took &quot; &quot; kumquat &quot; &quot; from Chinese , we took &quot; &quot; caramel &quot; &quot; from French .
We also take words for cool things like &quot; &quot; ninja , &quot; &quot; right ?
We took that from Japanese , which is kind of a cool trick because ninjas are hard to steal from .
( Laughter ) So another way that you can make words in English is by squishing two other English words together .
This is called compounding .
Words in English are like Lego : If you use enough force , you can put any two of them together .
( Laughter ) We do this all the time in English : Words like &quot; &quot; heartbroken , &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; bookworm , &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; sandcastle &quot; &quot; all are compounds .
So go ahead and make words like &quot; &quot; duckface , &quot; &quot; just don &apos;t make duckface .
( Laughter ) Another way that you can make words in English is kind of like compounding , but instead you use so much force when you squish the words together that some parts fall off .
So these are blend words , like &quot; &quot; brunch &quot; &quot; is a blend of &quot; &quot; breakfast &quot; &quot; and &quot; &quot; lunch . &quot; &quot; &quot; Motel &quot; is a blend of &quot; motor &quot; and &quot; hotel . &quot;
Who here knew that &quot; &quot; motel &quot; &quot; was a blend word ?
Yeah , that word is so old in English that lots of people don &apos;t know that there are parts missing .
&quot; Edutainment &quot; is a blend of &quot; education &quot; and &quot; entertainment . &quot;
And of course , &quot; &quot; electrocute &quot; &quot; is a blend of &quot; &quot; electric &quot; &quot; and &quot; &quot; execute . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) You can also make words by changing how they operate .
This is called functional shift .
You take a word that acts as one part of speech , and you change it into another part of speech .
Okay , who here knew that &quot; &quot; friend &quot; &quot; hasn &apos;t always been a verb ?
&quot; &quot; Friend &quot; &quot; used to be noun and then we verbed it .
Almost any word in English can be verbed .
You can also take adjectives and make them into nouns .
&quot; &quot; Commercial &quot; &quot; used to be an adjective and now it &apos;s a noun .
And of course , you can &quot; &quot; green &quot; &quot; things .
Another way to make words in English is back-formation .
You can take a word and you can kind of squish it down a little bit .
So for example , in English we had the word &quot; &quot; editor &quot; &quot; before we had the word &quot; &quot; edit . &quot; &quot; &quot; Edit &quot; was formed from &quot; editor . &quot;
Sometimes these back-formations sound a little silly : Bulldozers bulldoze , butlers butle and burglers burgle .
( Laughter ) Another way to make words in English is to take the first letters of something and squish them together .
So National Aeronautics and Space Administration becomes NASA .
And of course you can do this with anything , OMG !
So it doesn &apos;t matter how silly the words are .
They can be really good words of English .
&quot; &quot; Absquatulate &quot; &quot; is a perfectly good word of English .
&quot; &quot; Mugwump &quot; &quot; is a perfectly good word of English .
So the words don &apos;t have have to sound normal , they can sound really silly .
Why should you make words ?
You should make words because every word is a chance to express your idea and get your meaning across .
And new words grab people &apos;s attention .
They get people to focus on what you &apos;re saying and that gives you a better chance to get your meaning across .
A lot of people on this stage today have said , &quot; &quot; In the future , you can do this , you can help with this , you can help us explore , you can help us invent . &quot; &quot; You can make a new word right now .
English has no age limit .
Go ahead , start making words today , send them to me , and I will put them in my online dictionary , Wordnik .
Thank you so much .
( Applause )
Embracing otherness .
When I first heard this theme , I thought , well , embracing otherness is embracing myself .
And the journey to that place of understanding and acceptance has been an interesting one for me , and it &apos;s given me an insight into the whole notion of self , which I think is worth sharing with you today .
We each have a self , but I don &apos;t think that we &apos;re born with one .
You know how newborn babies believe they &apos;re part of everything ; they &apos;re not separate ?
Well that fundamental sense of oneness is lost on us very quickly .
It &apos;s like that initial stage is over — oneness : infancy , unformed , primitive .
It &apos;s no longer valid or real .
What is real is separateness , and at some point in early babyhood , the idea of self starts to form .
Our little portion of oneness is given a name , is told all kinds of things about itself , and these details , opinions and ideas become facts , which go towards building ourselves , our identity .
And that self becomes the vehicle for navigating our social world .
But the self is a projection based on other people &apos;s projections .
Is it who we really are ?
Or who we really want to be , or should be ?
So this whole interaction with self and identity was a very difficult one for me growing up .
The self that I attempted to take out into the world was rejected over and over again .
And my panic at not having a self that fit , and the confusion that came from my self being rejected , created anxiety , shame and hopelessness , which kind of defined me for a long time .
But in retrospect , the destruction of my self was so repetitive that I started to see a pattern .
The self changed , got affected , broken , destroyed , but another one would evolve — sometimes stronger , sometimes hateful , sometimes not wanting to be there at all .
The self was not constant .
And how many times would my self have to die before I realized that it was never alive in the first place ?
I grew up on the coast of England in the &apos; 70s .
My dad is white from Cornwall , and my mom is black from Zimbabwe .
Even the idea of us as a family was challenging to most people .
But nature had its wicked way , and brown babies were born .
But from about the age of five , I was aware that I didn &apos;t fit .
I was the black atheist kid in the all-white Catholic school run by nuns .
I was an anomaly , and my self was rooting around for definition and trying to plug in .
Because the self likes to fit , to see itself replicated , to belong .
That confirms its existence and its importance .
And it is important .
It has an extremely important function .
Without it , we literally can &apos;t interface with others .
We can &apos;t hatch plans and climb that stairway of popularity , of success .
But my skin color wasn &apos;t right .
My hair wasn &apos;t right .
My history wasn &apos;t right .
My self became defined by otherness , which meant that , in that social world , I didn &apos;t really exist .
And I was &quot; &quot; other &quot; &quot; before being anything else — even before being a girl .
I was a noticeable nobody .
Another world was opening up around this time : performance and dancing .
That nagging dread of self-hood didn &apos;t exist when I was dancing .
I &apos;d literally lose myself .
And I was a really good dancer .
I would put all my emotional expression into my dancing .
I could be in the movement in a way that I wasn &apos;t able to be in my real life , in myself .
And at 16 , I stumbled across another opportunity , and I earned my first acting role in a film .
I can hardly find the words to describe the peace I felt when I was acting .
My dysfunctional self could actually plug in to another self , not my own , and it felt so good .
It was the first time that I existed inside a fully-functioning self — one that I controlled , that I steered , that I gave life to .
But the shooting day would end , and I &apos;d return to my gnarly , awkward self .
By 19 , I was a fully-fledged movie actor , but still searching for definition .
I applied to read anthropology at university .
Dr. Phyllis Lee gave me my interview , and she asked me , &quot; &quot; How would you define race ? &quot; &quot; Well , I thought I had the answer to that one , and I said , &quot; &quot; Skin color . &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; So biology , genetics ? &quot; &quot; she said .
&quot; &quot; Because , Thandie , that &apos;s not accurate .
Because there &apos;s actually more genetic difference between a black Kenyan and a black Ugandan than there is between a black Kenyan and , say , a white Norwegian .
Because we all stem from Africa .
So in Africa , there &apos;s been more time to create genetic diversity . &quot; &quot; In other words , race has no basis in biological or scientific fact .
On the one hand , result .
Right ?
On the other hand , my definition of self just lost a huge chunk of its credibility .
But what was credible , what is biological and scientific fact , is that we all stem from Africa — in fact , from a woman called Mitochondrial Eve who lived 160,000 years ago .
And race is an illegitimate concept which our selves have created based on fear and ignorance .
Strangely , these revelations didn &apos;t cure my low self-esteem , that feeling of otherness .
My desire to disappear was still very powerful .
I had a degree from Cambridge ; I had a thriving career , but my self was a car crash , and I wound up with bulimia and on a therapist &apos;s couch .
And of course I did .
I still believed my self was all I was .
I still valued self-worth above all other worth , and what was there to suggest otherwise ?
We &apos;ve created entire value systems and a physical reality to support the worth of self .
Look at the industry for self-image and the jobs it creates , the revenue it turns over .
We &apos;d be right in assuming that the self is an actual living thing .
But it &apos;s not . It &apos;s a projection which our clever brains create in order to cheat ourselves from the reality of death .
But there is something that can give the self ultimate and infinite connection — and that thing is oneness , our essence .
The self &apos;s struggle for authenticity and definition will never end unless it &apos;s connected to its creator — to you and to me .
And that can happen with awareness — awareness of the reality of oneness and the projection of self-hood .
For a start , we can think about all the times when we do lose ourselves .
It happens when I dance , when I &apos;m acting .
I &apos;m earthed in my essence , and my self is suspended .
In those moments , I &apos;m connected to everything — the ground , the air , the sounds , the energy from the audience .
All my senses are alert and alive in much the same way as an infant might feel — that feeling of oneness .
And when I &apos;m acting a role , I inhabit another self , and I give it life for awhile , because when the self is suspended so is divisiveness and judgment .
And I &apos;ve played everything from a vengeful ghost in the time of slavery to Secretary of State in 2004 .
And no matter how other these selves might be , they &apos;re all related in me .
And I honestly believe the key to my success as an actor and my progress as a person has been the very lack of self that used to make me feel so anxious and insecure .
I always wondered why I could feel others &apos; pain so deeply , why I could recognize the somebody in the nobody .
It &apos;s because I didn &apos;t have a self to get in the way .
I thought I lacked substance , and the fact that I could feel others &apos; meant that I had nothing of myself to feel .
The thing that was a source of shame was actually a source of enlightenment .
And when I realized and really understood that my self is a projection and that it has a function , a funny thing happened .
I stopped giving it so much authority .
I give it its due .
I take it to therapy .
I &apos;ve become very familiar with its dysfunctional behavior .
But I &apos;m not ashamed of my self .
In fact , I respect my self and its function .
And over time and with practice , I &apos;ve tried to live more and more from my essence .
And if you can do that , incredible things happen .
I was in Congo in February , dancing and celebrating with women who &apos;ve survived the destruction of their selves in literally unthinkable ways — destroyed because other brutalized , psychopathic selves all over that beautiful land are fueling our selves &apos; addiction to iPods , Pads , and bling , which further disconnect ourselves from ever feeling their pain , their suffering , their death .
Because , hey , if we &apos;re all living in ourselves and mistaking it for life , then we &apos;re devaluing and desensitizing life .
And in that disconnected state , yeah , we can build factory farms with no windows , destroy marine life and use rape as a weapon of war .
So here &apos;s a note to self : The cracks have started to show in our constructed world , and oceans will continue to surge through the cracks , and oil and blood , rivers of it .
Crucially , we haven &apos;t been figuring out how to live in oneness with the Earth and every other living thing .
We &apos;ve just been insanely trying to figure out how to live with each other — billions of each other .
Only we &apos;re not living with each other ; our crazy selves are living with each other and perpetuating an epidemic of disconnection .
Let &apos;s live with each other and take it a breath at a time .
If we can get under that heavy self , light a torch of awareness , and find our essence , our connection to the infinite and every other living thing .
We knew it from the day we were born .
Let &apos;s not be freaked out by our bountiful nothingness .
It &apos;s more a reality than the ones our selves have created .
Imagine what kind of existence we can have if we honor inevitable death of self , appreciate the privilege of life and marvel at what comes next .
Simple awareness is where it begins .
Thank you for listening .
( Applause )
In 2008 , Cyclone Nargis devastated Myanmar .
Millions of people were in severe need of help .
The U.N. wanted to rush people and supplies to the area .
But there were no maps , no maps of roads , no maps showing hospitals , no way for help to reach the cyclone victims .
When we look at a map of Los Angeles or London , it is hard to believe that as of 2005 , only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geo-codable level of detail .
The U.N. ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world &apos;s populous faces : not having detailed maps .
But help was coming .
At Google , 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120,000 kilometers of roads , 3,000 hospitals , logistics and relief points .
And it took them four days .
The new software they used ? Google Mapmaker .
Google Mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally .
People have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers , from schools to local businesses , and video stores to the corner store .
Maps matter .
Nobel Prize nominee Hernando De Soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land .
For example , a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in India alone .
In the last year alone , thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information , and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable .
And this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere .
Let &apos;s look at some of the maps being created by users right now .
So , as we speak , people are mapping the world in these 170 countries .
You can see Bridget in Africa who just mapped a road in Senegal .
And , closer to home , Chalua , an N.G. road in Bangalore .
This is the result of computational geometry , gesture recognition , and machine learning .
This is a victory of thousands of users , in hundreds of cities , one user , one edit at a time .
This is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet .
Welcome to the new world .
( Applause )
I would like to tell you all that you are all actually cyborgs , but not the cyborgs that you think .
You &apos;re not RoboCop , and you &apos;re not Terminator , but you &apos;re cyborgs every time you look at a computer screen or use one of your cell phone devices .
So what &apos;s a good definition for cyborg ?
Well , traditional definition is &quot; &quot; an organism to which exogenous components have been added for the purpose of adapting to new environments . &quot; &quot; That came from a 1960 paper on space travel , because , if you think about it , space is pretty awkward .
People aren &apos;t supposed to be there .
But humans are curious , and they like to add things to their bodies so they can go to the Alps one day and then become a fish in the sea the next .
So let &apos;s look at the concept of traditional anthropology .
Somebody goes to another country , says , &quot; &quot; How fascinating these people are , how interesting their tools are , how curious their culture is . &quot; &quot; And then they write a paper , and maybe a few other anthropologists read it , and we think it &apos;s very exotic .
Well , what &apos;s happening is that we &apos;ve suddenly found a new species .
I , as a cyborg anthropologist , have suddenly said , &quot; &quot; Oh , wow . Now suddenly we &apos;re a new form of Homo sapiens , and look at these fascinating cultures , and look at these curious rituals that everybody &apos;s doing around this technology .
They &apos;re clicking on things and staring at screens . &quot; &quot; Now there &apos;s a reason why I study this , versus traditional anthropology .
And the reason is that tool use , in the beginning — for thousands and thousands of years , everything has been a physical modification of self .
It has helped us to extend our physical selves , go faster , hit things harder , and there &apos;s been a limit on that .
But now what we &apos;re looking at is not an extension of the physical self , but an extension of the mental self , and because of that , we &apos;re able to travel faster , communicate differently .
And the other thing that happens is that we &apos;re all carrying around little Mary Poppins technology .
We can put anything we want into it , and it doesn &apos;t get heavier , and then we can take anything out .
What does the inside of your computer actually look like ?
Well , if you print it out , it looks like a thousand pounds of material that you &apos;re carrying around all the time .
And if you actually lose that information , it means that you suddenly have this loss in your mind , that you suddenly feel like something &apos;s missing , except you aren &apos;t able to see it , so it feels like a very strange emotion .
The other thing that happens is that you have a second self .
Whether you like it or not , you &apos;re starting to show up online , and people are interacting with your second self when you &apos;re not there .
And so you have to be careful about leaving your front lawn open , which is basically your Facebook wall , so that people don &apos;t write on it in the middle of the night — because it &apos;s very much the equivalent .
And suddenly we have to start to maintain our second self .
You have to present yourself in digital life in a similar way that you would in your analog life .
So , in the same way that you wake up , take a shower and get dressed , you have to learn to do that for your digital self .
And the problem is that a lot of people now , especially adolescents , have to go through two adolescences .
They have to go through their primary one , that &apos;s already awkward , and then they go through their second self &apos;s adolescence , and that &apos;s even more awkward because there &apos;s an actual history of what they &apos;ve gone through online .
And anybody coming in new to technology is an adolescent online right now , and so it &apos;s very awkward , and it &apos;s very difficult for them to do those things .
So when I was little , my dad would sit me down at night and he would say , &quot; I &apos;m going to teach you about time and space in the future . &quot;
And I said , &quot; &quot; Great . &quot; &quot; And he said one day , &quot; &quot; What &apos;s the shortest distance between two points ? &quot; &quot; And I said , &quot; &quot; Well , that &apos;s a straight line . You told me that yesterday . &quot; &quot; I thought I was very clever .
He said , &quot; &quot; No , no , no . Here &apos;s a better way . &quot; &quot; He took a piece of paper , drew A and B on one side and the other and folded them together so where A and B touched .
And he said , &quot; &quot; That is the shortest distance between two points . &quot; &quot; And I said , &quot; &quot; Dad , dad , dad , how do you do that ? &quot; &quot; He said , &quot; &quot; Well , you just bend time and space , it takes an awful lot of energy , and that &apos;s just how you do it . &quot; &quot; And I said , &quot; &quot; I want to do that . &quot; &quot; And he said , &quot; &quot; Well , okay . &quot; &quot; And so , when I went to sleep for the next 10 or 20 years , I was thinking at night , &quot; &quot; I want to be the first person to create a wormhole , to make things accelerate faster .
And I want to make a time machine . &quot; &quot; I was always sending messages to my future self using tape recorders .
But then what I realized when I went to college is that technology doesn &apos;t just get adopted because it works .
It gets adopted because people use it and it &apos;s made for humans .
So I started studying anthropology .
And when I was writing my thesis on cell phones , I realized that everyone was carrying around wormholes in their pockets .
They weren &apos;t physically transporting themselves ; they were mentally transporting themselves .
They would click on a button , and they would be connected as A to B immediately .
And I thought , &quot; &quot; Oh , wow . I found it . This is great . &quot; &quot; So over time , time and space have compressed because of this .
You can stand on one side of the world , whisper something and be heard on the other .
One of the other ideas that comes around is that you have a different type of time on every single device that you use .
Every single browser tab gives you a different type of time .
And because of that , you start to dig around for your external memories — where did you leave them ?
So now we &apos;re all these paleontologists that are digging for things that we &apos;ve lost on our external brains that we &apos;re carrying around in our pockets .
And that incites a sort of panic architecture — &quot; Oh no , where &apos;s this thing ? &quot;
We &apos;re all &quot; &quot; I Love Lucy &quot; &quot; on a great assembly line of information , and we can &apos;t keep up .
And so what happens is , when we bring all that into the social space , we end up checking our phones all the time .
So we have this thing called ambient intimacy .
It &apos;s not that we &apos;re always connected to everybody , but at anytime we can connect to anyone we want .
And if you were able to print out everybody in your cell phone , the room would be very crowded .
These are the people that you have access to right now , in general — all of these people , all of your friends and family that you can connect to .
And so there are some psychological effects that happen with this .
One I &apos;m really worried about is that people aren &apos;t taking time for mental reflection anymore , and that they aren &apos;t slowing down and stopping , being around all those people in the room all the time that are trying to compete for their attention on the simultaneous time interfaces , paleontology and panic architecture .
They &apos;re not just sitting there .
And really , when you have no external input , that is a time when there is a creation of self , when you can do long-term planning , when you can try and figure out who you really are .
And then , once you do that , you can figure out how to present your second self in a legitimate way , instead of just dealing with everything as it comes in — and oh , I have to do this , and I have to do this , and I have to do this .
And so this is very important .
I &apos;m really worried that , especially kids today , they &apos;re not going to be dealing with this down-time , that they have an instantaneous button-clicking culture , and that everything comes to them , and that they become very excited about it and very addicted to it .
So if you think about it , the world hasn &apos;t stopped either .
It has its own external prosthetic devices , and these devices are helping us all to communicate and interact with each other .
But when you actually visualize it , all the connections that we &apos;re doing right now — this is an image of the mapping of the Internet — it doesn &apos;t look technological .
It actually looks very organic .
This is the first time in the entire history of humanity that we &apos;ve connected in this way .
And it &apos;s not that machines are taking over .
It &apos;s that they &apos;re helping us to be more human , helping us to connect with each other .
The most successful technology gets out of the way and helps us live our lives .
And really , it ends up being more human than technology , because we &apos;re co-creating each other all the time .
And so this is the important point that I like to study : that things are beautiful , that it &apos;s still a human connection — it &apos;s just done in a different way .
We &apos;re just increasing our humanness and our ability to connect with each other , regardless of geography .
So that &apos;s why I study cyborg anthropology .
Thank you .
( Applause )
I &apos;m a designer and an educator .
I &apos;m a multitasking person , and I push my students to fly through a very creative , multitasking design process .
But how efficient is , really , this multitasking ?
Let &apos;s consider for a while the option of monotasking .
A couple of examples .
Look at that .
This is my multitasking activity result . ( Laughter ) So trying to cook , answering the phone , writing SMS , and maybe uploading some pictures about this awesome barbecue .
So someone tells us the story about supertaskers , so this two percent of people who are able to control multitasking environment .
But what about ourselves , and what about our reality ?
When &apos;s the last time you really enjoyed just the voice of your friend ?
So this is a project I &apos;m working on , and this is a series of front covers to downgrade our super , hyper — ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) to downgrade our super , hyper-mobile phones into the essence of their function .
So nowadays , everyone could produce his mono product .
Why not ? So find your monotask spot within the multitasking world .
Thank you .
( Aquatic noises ) So this video was taken at Aquarius undersea laboratory four miles off the coast of Key Largo , about 60 feet below the surface .
NASA uses this extreme environment to train astronauts and aquanauts , and last year , they invited us along for the ride .
All the footage was taken from our open ROV , which is a robot that we built in our garage .
So ROV stands for Remote Operated Vehicle , which in our case means our little robot sends live video across that ultra-thin tether back to the computer topside .
It &apos;s open source , meaning we publish and share all of our design files and all of our code online , allowing anyone to modify or improve or change the design .
It &apos;s built with mostly off-the-shelf parts and costs about 1,000 times cheaper than the ROVs James Cameron used to explore the Titanic .
So ROVs aren &apos;t new .
They &apos;ve been around for decades .
Scientists use ROVs to explore the oceans .
Oil and gas companies use them for exploration and construction .
What we &apos;ve built isn &apos;t unique .
It &apos;s how we &apos;ve built it that &apos;s really unique .
So I want to give you a quick story of how it got started .
So a few years ago , my friend Eric and I decided we wanted to explore this underwater cave in the foothills of the Sierras .
We had heard this story about lost gold from a Gold Rush-era robbery , and we wanted to go up there .
Unfortunately , we didn &apos;t have any money and we didn &apos;t have any tools to do it .
So Eric had an initial design idea for a robot , but we didn &apos;t have all the parts figured out , so we did what anybody would do in our situation : we asked the Internet for help .
More specifically , we created this website , openROV.com , and shared our intentions and our plans For the first few months , it was just Eric and I talking back to each other on the forums , but pretty soon , we started to get feedback from makers and hobbyists , and then actually professional ocean engineers who had some suggestions for what we should do .
We kept working on it . We learned a lot .
We kept prototyping , and eventually , we decided we wanted to go to the cave . We were ready .
So about that time , our little expedition became quite a story , and it got picked up in The New York Times .
And we were pretty much just overwhelmed with interest from people who wanted a kit that they could build this open ROV themselves .
So we decided to put the project on Kickstarter , and when we did , we raised our funding goal in about two hours , and all of a sudden , had this money to make these kits .
But then we had to learn how to make them .
I mean , we had to learn small batch manufacturing .
So we quickly learned that our garage was not big enough to hold our growing operation .
But we were able to do it , we got all the kits made , thanks a lot to TechShop , which was a big help to us , and we shipped these kits all over the world just before Christmas of last year , so it was just a few months ago .
But we &apos;re already starting to get video and photos back from all over the world , including this shot from under the ice in Antarctica .
We &apos;ve also learned the penguins love robots .
( Laughter ) So we &apos;re still publishing all the designs online , encouraging anyone to build these themselves .
That &apos;s the only way that we could have done this .
By being open source , we &apos;ve created this distributed R &amp; D network , and we &apos;re moving faster than any venture-backed counterpart .
But the actual robot is really only half the story .
The real potential , the long term potential , is with this community of DIY ocean explorers that are forming all over the globe .
What can we discover when there &apos;s thousands of these devices roaming the seas ?
So you &apos;re probably all wondering : the cave .
Did you find the gold ?
Well , we didn &apos;t find any gold , but we decided that what we found was much more valuable .
It was the glimpse into a potential future for ocean exploration .
It &apos;s something that &apos;s not limited to the James Camerons of the world , but something that we &apos;re all participating in .
It &apos;s an underwater world we &apos;re all exploring together .
Thank you .
( Applause )
One thing the world needs , one thing this country desperately needs is a better way of conducting our political debates .
We need to rediscover the lost art of democratic argument .
( Applause ) If you think about the arguments we have , most of the time it &apos;s shouting matches on cable television , ideological food fights on the floor of Congress .
I have a suggestion .
Look at all the arguments we have these days over health care , over bonuses and bailouts on Wall Street , over the gap between rich and poor , over affirmative action and same-sex marriage .
Lying just beneath the surface of those arguments , with passions raging on all sides , are big questions of moral philosophy , big questions of justice .
But we too rarely articulate and defend and argue about those big moral questions in our politics .
So what I would like to do today is have something of a discussion .
First , let me take a famous philosopher who wrote about those questions of justice and morality , give you a very short lecture on Aristotle of ancient Athens , Aristotle &apos;s theory of justice , and then have a discussion here to see whether Aristotle &apos;s ideas actually inform the way we think and argue about questions today .
So , are you ready for the lecture ?
According to Aristotle , justice means giving people what they deserve .
That &apos;s it ; that &apos;s the lecture .
( Laughter ) Now , you may say , well , that &apos;s obvious enough .
The real questions begin when it comes to arguing about who deserves what and why .
Take the example of flutes .
Suppose we &apos;re distributing flutes .
Who should get the best ones ?
Let &apos;s see what people — What would you say ?
Who should get the best flute ?
You can just call it out .
( Audience : Random . ) Michael Sandel : At random . You would do it by lottery .
Or by the first person to rush into the hall to get them .
Who else ?
( Audience : The best flute players . ) MS : The best flute players . ( Audience : The worst flute players . ) MS : The worst flute players .
How many say the best flute players ?
Why ?
Actually , that was Aristotle &apos;s answer too .
( Laughter ) But here &apos;s a harder question .
Why do you think , those of you who voted this way , that the best flutes should go to the best flute players ?
Peter : The greatest benefit to all .
MS : The greatest benefit to all .
We &apos;ll hear better music if the best flutes should go to the best flute players .
That &apos;s Peter ? ( Audience : Peter . ) MS : All right .
Well , it &apos;s a good reason .
We &apos;ll all be better off if good music is played rather than terrible music .
But Peter , Aristotle doesn &apos;t agree with you that that &apos;s the reason .
That &apos;s all right .
Aristotle had a different reason for saying the best flutes should go to the best flute players .
He said , that &apos;s what flutes are for — to be played well .
He says that to reason about just distribution of a thing , we have to reason about , and sometimes argue about , the purpose of the thing , or the social activity — in this case , musical performance .
And the point , the essential nature , of musical performance is to produce excellent music .
It &apos;ll be a happy byproduct that we &apos;ll all benefit .
But when we think about justice , Aristotle says , what we really need to think about is the essential nature of the activity in question and the qualities that are worth honoring and admiring and recognizing .
One of the reasons that the best flute players should get the best flutes is that musical performance is not only to make the rest of us happy , but to honor and recognize the excellence of the best musicians .
Now , flutes may seem ... the distribution of flutes may seem a trivial case .
Let &apos;s take a contemporary example of the dispute about justice .
It had to do with golf .
Casey Martin — a few years ago , Casey Martin — did any of you hear about him ?
He was a very good golfer , but he had a disability .
He had a bad leg , a circulatory problem , that made it very painful for him to walk the course .
In fact , it carried risk of injury .
He asked the PGA , the Professional Golfers &apos; Association , for permission to use a golf cart in the PGA tournaments .
They said , &quot; &quot; No .
Now that would give you an unfair advantage . &quot; &quot; He sued , and his case went all the way to the Supreme Court , believe it or not , the case over the golf cart , because the law says that the disabled must be accommodated , provided the accommodation does not change the essential nature of the activity .
He says , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m a great golfer .
I want to compete .
But I need a golf cart to get from one hole to the next . &quot; &quot; Suppose you were on the Supreme Court .
Suppose you were deciding the justice of this case .
How many here would say that Casey Martin does have a right to use a golf cart ?
And how many say , no , he doesn &apos;t ?
All right , let &apos;s take a poll , show of hands .
How many would rule in favor of Casey Martin ?
And how many would not ? How many would say he doesn &apos;t ?
All right , we have a good division of opinion here .
Someone who would not grant Casey Martin the right to a golf cart , what would be your reason ?
Raise your hand , and we &apos;ll try to get you a microphone .
What would be your reason ?
( Audience : It &apos;d be an unfair advantage . ) MS : It would be an unfair advantage if he gets to ride in a golf cart .
All right , those of you , I imagine most of you who would not give him the golf cart worry about an unfair advantage .
What about those of you who say he should be given a golf cart ?
How would you answer the objection ?
Yes , all right .
Audience : The cart &apos;s not part of the game .
MS : What &apos;s your name ? ( Audience : Charlie . ) MS : Charlie says — We &apos;ll get Charlie a microphone in case someone wants to reply .
Tell us , Charlie , why would you say he should be able to use a golf cart ?
Charlie : The cart &apos;s not part of the game .
MS : But what about walking from hole to hole ?
Charlie : It doesn &apos;t matter ; it &apos;s not part of the game .
MS : Walking the course is not part of the game of golf ?
Charlie : Not in my book , it isn &apos;t .
MS : All right . Stay there , Charlie .
( Laughter ) Who has an answer for Charlie ?
All right , who has an answer for Charlie ?
What would you say ?
Audience : The endurance element is a very important part of the game , walking all those holes .
MS : Walking all those holes ?
That &apos;s part of the game of golf ? ( Audience : Absolutely . ) MS : What &apos;s your name ? ( Audience : Warren . ) MS : Warren .
Charlie , what do you say to Warren ?
Charley : I &apos;ll stick to my original thesis .
( Laughter ) MS : Warren , are you a golfer ?
Warren : I am not a golfer .
Charley : And I am . ( MS : Okay . ) ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) You know , it &apos;s interesting .
In the case , in the lower court , they brought in golfing greats to testify on this very issue .
Is walking the course essential to the game ?
And they brought in Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer .
And what do you suppose they all said ?
Yes . They agreed with Warren .
They said , yes , walking the course is strenuous physical exercise .
The fatigue factor is an important part of golf .
And so it would change the fundamental nature of the game to give him the golf cart .
Now , notice , something interesting — Well , I should tell you about the Supreme Court first .
The Supreme Court decided .
What do you suppose they said ?
They said yes , that Casey Martin must be provided a golf cart .
Seven to two , they ruled .
What was interesting about their ruling and about the discussion we &apos;ve just had is that the discussion about the right , the justice , of the matter depended on figuring out what is the essential nature of golf .
And the Supreme Court justices wrestled with that question .
And Justice Stevens , writing for the majority , said he had read all about the history of golf , and the essential point of the game is to get very small ball from one place into a hole in as few strokes as possible , and that walking was not essential , but incidental .
Now , there were two dissenters , one of whom was Justice Scalia .
He wouldn &apos;t have granted the cart , and he had a very interesting dissent .
It &apos;s interesting because he rejected the Aristotelian premise underlying the majority &apos;s opinion .
He said it &apos;s not possible to determine the essential nature of a game like golf .
Here &apos;s how he put it .
&quot; &quot; To say that something is essential is ordinarily to say that it is necessary to the achievement of a certain object .
But since it is the very nature of a game to have no object except amusement , ( Laughter ) that is , what distinguishes games from productive activity , ( Laughter ) it is quite impossible to say that any of a game &apos;s arbitrary rules is essential . &quot; &quot; So there you have Justice Scalia taking on the Aristotelian premise of the majority &apos;s opinion .
Justice Scalia &apos;s opinion is questionable for two reasons .
First , no real sports fan would talk that way .
( Laughter ) If we had thought that the rules of the sports we care about are merely arbitrary , rather than designed to call forth the virtues and the excellences that we think are worthy of admiring , we wouldn &apos;t care about the outcome of the game .
It &apos;s also objectionable on a second ground .
On the face of it , it seemed to be — this debate about the golf cart — an argument about fairness , what &apos;s an unfair advantage .
But if fairness were the only thing at stake , there would have been an easy and obvious solution .
What would it be ? ( Audience : Let everyone use the cart . ) Let everyone ride in a golf cart if they want to .
Then the fairness objection goes away .
But letting everyone ride in a cart would have been , I suspect , more anathema to the golfing greats and to the PGA , even than making an exception for Casey Martin .
Why ?
Because what was at stake in the dispute over the golf cart was not only the essential nature of golf , but , relatedly , the question : What abilities are worthy of honor and recognition as athletic talents ?
Let me put the point as delicately as possible : Golfers are a little sensitive about the athletic status of their game .
( Laughter ) After all , there &apos;s no running or jumping , and the ball stands still . ( Laughter )
So if golfing is the kind of game that can be played while riding around in a golf cart , it would be hard to confer on the golfing greats the status that we confer , the honor and recognition that goes to truly great athletes .
That illustrates that with golf , as with flutes , it &apos;s hard to decide the question of what justice requires , without grappling with the question , &quot; &quot; What is the essential nature of the activity in question , and what qualities , what excellences connected with that activity , are worthy of honor and recognition ? &quot; &quot; Let &apos;s take a final example that &apos;s prominent in contemporary political debate : same-sex marriage .
There are those who favor state recognition only of traditional marriage between one man and one woman , and there are those who favor state recognition of same-sex marriage .
How many here favor the first policy : the state should recognize traditional marriage only ?
And how many favor the second , same-sex marriage ?
Now , put it this way : What ways of thinking about justice and morality underlie the arguments we have over marriage ?
The opponents of same-sex marriage say that the purpose of marriage , fundamentally , is procreation , and that &apos;s what &apos;s worthy of honoring and recognizing and encouraging .
And the defenders of same-sex marriage say no , procreation is not the only purpose of marriage ; what about a lifelong , mutual , loving commitment ?
That &apos;s really what marriage is about .
So with flutes , with golf carts , and even with a fiercely contested question like same-sex marriage , Aristotle has a point .
Very hard to argue about justice without first arguing about the purpose of social institutions and about what qualities are worthy of honor and recognition .
So let &apos;s step back from these cases and see how they shed light on the way we might improve , elevate , the terms of political discourse in the United States , and for that matter , around the world .
There is a tendency to think that if we engage too directly with moral questions in politics , that &apos;s a recipe for disagreement , and for that matter , a recipe for intolerance and coercion .
So better to shy away from , to ignore , the moral and the religious convictions that people bring to civic life .
It seems to me that our discussion reflects the opposite , that a better way to mutual respect is to engage directly with the moral convictions citizens bring to public life , rather than to require that people leave their deepest moral convictions outside politics before they enter .
That , it seems to me , is a way to begin to restore the art of democratic argument .
Thank you very much .
( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause )
Thank you very much . Thanks . Thank you . Chris . Thanks , Chris . Chris Anderson : From flutes to golf courses
to same-sex marriage — that was a genius link .
Now look , you &apos;re a pioneer of open education .
Your lecture series was one of the first to do it big .
What &apos;s your vision for the next phase of this ?
MS : Well , I think that it is possible .
In the classroom , we have arguments on some of the most fiercely held moral convictions that students have about big public questions .
And I think we can do that in public life more generally .
And so my real dream would be to take the public television series that we &apos;ve created of the course — it &apos;s available now , online , free for everyone anywhere in the world — and to see whether we can partner with institutions , at universities in China , in India , in Africa , around the world , to try to promote civic education and also a richer kind of democratic debate .
CA : So you picture , at some point , live , in real time , you could have this kind of conversation , inviting questions , but with people from China and India joining in ?
MS : Right . We did a little bit of it here with 1,500 people in Long Beach , and we do it in a classroom at Harvard with about 1,000 students .
Wouldn &apos;t it be interesting to take this way of thinking and arguing , engaging seriously with big moral questions , exploring cultural differences and connect through a live video hookup , students in Beijing and Mumbai and in Cambridge , Massachusetts and create a global classroom .
That &apos;s what I would love to do .
( Applause ) CA : So , I would imagine that there are a lot of people who would love to join you in that endeavor .
Michael Sandel . Thank you so much . ( MS : Thanks so much . )
These realities are experienced separately by each individual .
This seems weird to us , because each of us only experiences an individual existence , and we don &apos;t get to see other branches .
These four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has .
In a strong interaction , a strong force particle , such as this one , interacts with a colored quark , such as this green one , to give a quark with a different color charge — this red one .
But these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story .
From their location in this pattern , we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the Higgs particle , but have color charge and interact with the strong force .
If the LHC finds particles that fit this E8 pattern , that will be very , very cool .
( Laughter ) I try to balance my life equally between physics , love and surfing — my own three charge directions . ( Laughter )
This means , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m smiling . &quot; &quot; So does that .
This means &quot; &quot; mouse . &quot; &quot; &quot; Cat . &quot;
Here we have a story .
The start of the story , where this means guy , and that is a ponytail on a passer-by .
Here &apos;s where it happens .
These are when .
This is a cassette tape the girl puts into her cassette-tape player .
She wears it every day .
It &apos;s not considered vintage — she just likes certain music to sound a certain way .
Look at her posture ; it &apos;s remarkable .
That &apos;s because she dances .
Now he , the guy , takes all of this in , figuring , &quot; Honestly , geez , what are my chances ? &quot;
( Laughter ) And he could say , &quot; &quot; Oh my God ! &quot; &quot; or &quot; &quot; I heart you ! &quot; &quot; &quot; I &apos;m laughing out loud . &quot;
&quot; I want to give you a hug . &quot;
But he comes up with that , you know .
He tells her , &quot; &quot; I &apos;d like to hand-paint your portrait on a coffee mug . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Put a crab inside it .
Add some water .
Seven different salts .
He means he &apos;s got this sudden notion to stand on dry land , but just panhandle at the ocean .
He says , &quot; &quot; You look like a mermaid , but you walk like a waltz . &quot; &quot; And the girl goes , &quot; &quot; Wha &apos; ? &quot; &quot; So , the guy replies , &quot; &quot; Yeah , I know , I know .
I think my heartbeat might be the Morse code for inappropriate .
At least , that &apos;s how it seems .
I &apos;m like a junior varsity cheerleader sometimes — for swearing , awkward silences , and very simple rhyme schemes .
Right now , talking to you , I &apos;m not even really a guy .
I &apos;m a monkey — ( Laughter ) — blowing kisses at a butterfly .
But I &apos;m still suggesting you and I should meet .
First , soon , and then a lot .
I &apos;m thinking the southwest corner of 5th and 42nd at noon tomorrow , but I &apos;ll stay until you show up , ponytail or not .
Hell , ponytail alone .
I don &apos;t know what else to tell you .
I got a pencil you can borrow .
You can put it in your phone . &quot; &quot; But the girl does not budge , does not smile , does not frown .
She just says , &quot; &quot; No thank you . &quot; &quot; You know ?
&#91; &quot; &quot; i don &apos;t need 2 write it down . &quot; &quot; &#93; ( Applause )
Chris Anderson : Thank you so much , Prime Minister , that was both fascinating and quite inspiring .
Would you describe that as global citizenship ?
Is that an idea that you believe in , and how would you define that ?
There is so much to do over the next few years that is obvious to so many of us to build a better world .
I believe the concept of global citizenship will simply grow out of people talking to each other across continents .
But of course the task is to create the institutions that make that global society work .
But I don &apos;t think we should underestimate the extent to which massive changes in technology make possible the linking up of people across the world .
CA : But people get excited about this idea of global citizenship , but then they get confused a bit again when they start thinking about patriotism , and how to combine these two .
I mean , you &apos;re elected as Prime Minister with a brief to bat for Britain .
And I think one of the problems of recession is that people become more protectionist , they look in on themselves , they try to protect their own nation , perhaps at the expense of other nations .
When you actually look at the motor of the world economy , it cannot move forward unless there is trade between the different countries .
And any nation that would become protectionist over the next few years would deprive itself of the chance of getting the benefits of growth in the world economy .
CA : Well , indeed .
But what do you do when the two come into conflict and you &apos;re forced to make a decision that either is in Britain &apos;s interest , or the interest of Britons , or citizens elsewhere in the world ?
GB : Well I think we can persuade people that what is necessary for Britain &apos;s long-term interests , what is necessary for America &apos;s long-term interests , is proper engagement with the rest of the world , and taking the action that is necessary .
He doesn &apos;t quite know what to do , so he starts going around the crowd and starts talking to people and he says to people in this rather unique way , &quot; How does it feel to be free ? &quot;
( Laughter ) And that was the 1950s .
But what is equally remarkable is socioeconomic rights in Africa have not moved forward very fast even since the age of colonialism .
And yet , America and Africa have got a common interest .
And we have got to realize that if we don &apos;t link up with those people who are sensible voices and democratic voices in Africa , to work together for common causes , then the danger of Al Qaeda and related groups making progress in Africa is very big .
So , I would say that what seems sometimes to be altruism , in relation to Africa , or in relation to developing countries , is more than that .
And whatever the short-run price for taking action on climate change or on security , or taking action to provide opportunities for people for education , these are prices that are worth paying so that you build a stronger global society where people feel able to feel comfortable with each other and are able to communicate with each other in such a way that you can actually build stronger links between different countries .
( Applause ) Alert both . ( Applause )
I &apos;m just wondering whether you can see that changing over time , whether you see in Britain that there are changing attitudes , and that people are actually more supportive of the kind of global ethic that you talk about .
So , I think you &apos;re dealing with something that people instinctively see as part of their moral sense .
By tackling the impossible , you make the impossible possible .
CA : And we have had a speaker who said that very thing , and swallowed a sword right after that , which was quite dramatic .
CA : But , surely a true global ethic is for someone to say , &quot; &quot; I believe that the life of every human on the planet is worth the same , equal consideration , regardless of nationality and religion . &quot; &quot; And you have politicians who have — you &apos;re elected .
The idea of the responsibility to protect all individuals who are in situations where they are at humanitarian risk is now being established as a principle which governs the world .
But , the responsibility to protect is a new idea that is , in a sense , taken over from the idea of self-determination as the principle governing the international community .
We &apos;re saying that you cannot solve the problem of climate change in one country ; you &apos;ve got to involve all countries .
If you could get a deal at Copenhagen , where people agreed , A , that there was a long-term target for carbon emission cuts , B , that there was short-range targets that had to be met so this wasn &apos;t just abstract ; it was people actually making decisions now that would make a difference now , and if you could then find a financing mechanism that meant that the poorest countries that had been hurt by our inability to deal with climate change over many , many years and decades are given special help so that they can move to energy-efficient technologies , and they are in a position financially
America has made its first disposition on this with the bill that President Obama should be congratulated for getting through Congress .
And now we &apos;ve got to move them to accept a long-term target , and then short-term targets .
My name is Tom , and I &apos;ve come here today to come clean about what I do for money .
Basically , I use my mouth in strange ways in exchange for cash .
( Laughter ) I usually do this kind of thing in seedy downtown bars and on street corners , so this mightn &apos;t be the most appropriate setting , but I &apos;d like to give you guys a bit of a demonstration about what I do .
( Beatboxing ) And now , for my next number , I &apos;d like to return to the classics .
( Applause ) We &apos;re going to take it back , way back , back into time .
( Beatboxing : &quot; &quot; Billie Jean &quot; &quot; ) ♫ Billie Jean is not my lover ♫ ♫ She &apos;s just a girl who claims that I am the one ♫ ♫ But the kid is not my son ♫ ( Applause ) All right .
Wassup .
Thank you very much , TEDx .
If you guys haven &apos;t figured it out already , my name &apos;s Tom Thum , and I &apos;m a beatboxer , which means all the sounds that you just heard were made entirely using just my voice , and the only thing was my voice .
And I can assure you there are absolutely no effects on this microphone whatsoever .
And I &apos;m very , very stoked — ( Applause ) You guys are just applauding for everything . It &apos;s great .
Look at this , Mom ! I made it !
I &apos;m very , very stoked to be here today , representing my kinfolk and all those that haven &apos;t managed to make a career out of an innate ability for inhuman noisemaking .
Because it is a bit of a niche market , and there &apos;s not much work going on , especially where I &apos;m from .
You know , I &apos;m from Brisbane , which is a great city to live in .
Yeah ! All right ! Most of Brisbane &apos;s here . That &apos;s good .
( Laughter ) You know , I &apos;m from Brizzy , which is a great city to live in , but let &apos;s be honest — it &apos;s not exactly the cultural hub of the Southern Hemisphere .
So I do a lot of my work outside Brisbane and outside Australia , and so the pursuit of this crazy passion of mine has enabled me to see so many amazing places in the world .
So I &apos;d like to share with you , if I may , my experiences .
So ladies and gentlemen , I would like to take you on a journey throughout the continents and throughout sound itself .
We start our journey in the central deserts .
( Didgeridoo ) ( Airplane ) India .
( Beatboxing ) ( Sitar ) China .
( Guzheng ) ( Beatboxing ) Germany . ( Beatboxing )
Party , party , yeah .
( Laughter ) And before we reach our final destination , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to share with you some technology that I brought all the way from the thriving metropolis of Brisbane .
These things in front of me here are called Kaoss Pads , and they allow me to do a whole lot of different things with my voice .
For example , the one on the left here allows me to add a little bit of reverb to my sound , which gives me that — ( Trumpet ) — flavor .
( Laughter ) And the other ones here , I can use them in unison to mimic the effect of a drum machine or something like that .
I can sample in my own sounds and I can play it back just by hitting the pads here .
( Noises ) TEDx .
( Music ) ( Applause ) I got way too much time on my hands .
And last but not least , the one on my right here allows me to loop loop loop loop loop loop loop loop my voice .
So with all that in mind , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to take you on a journey to a completely separate part of Earth as I transform the Sydney Opera House into a smoky downtown jazz bar .
All right boys , take it away .
( Music ) Ladies and gentlemen , I &apos;d like to introduce you to a very special friend of mine , one of the greatest double bassists I know .
Mr. Smokey Jefferson , let &apos;s take it for a walk . Come on , baby .
( Music ) All right , ladies and gentlemen , I &apos;d like to introduce you to the star of the show , one of the greatest jazz legends of our time .
Music lovers and jazz lovers alike , please give a warm hand of applause for the one and only Mr. Peeping Tom . Take it away .
( Music ) ( Applause ) Thank you . Thank you very much . ( Applause )
I &apos;m used to thinking of the TED audience as a wonderful collection of some of the most effective , intelligent , intellectual , savvy , worldly and innovative people in the world .
( Laughter ) Now I know that seems ludicrous . I know that seems ludicrous .
So I went back to the store and said to the owner , &quot; I love the shoes , but I hate the laces . &quot;
As it turns out — ( Laughter ) there &apos;s a strong form and a weak form of this knot , and we were taught the weak form .
If you pull the strands at the base of the knot , you will see that the bow will orient itself down the long axis of the shoe .
Pull the knot .
Now , in keeping with today &apos;s theme , I &apos;d like to point out — something you already know — that sometimes a small advantage someplace in life can yield tremendous results someplace else .
And I was thinking about quarks and gluons and heavy ion collisions , and I was only 14 years old — No , no , I wasn &apos;t 14 years old .
One day , a NASA manager comes into my office , sits down and says , &quot; Can you please tell us , how do we look for life outside Earth ? &quot;
But here &apos;s something . &quot; &quot; And he goes , &quot; &quot; Right , that &apos;s life too . I know that . &quot; &quot; Except , if you think that life is also defined by things that die , you &apos;re not in luck with this thing , because that &apos;s actually a very strange organism .
It grows up into the adult stage like that and then goes through a Benjamin Button phase , and actually goes backwards and backwards until it &apos;s like a little embryo again , and then actually grows back up , and back down and back up — sort of yo-yo — and it never dies .
And then , of course , NASA also had a big announcement , and President Clinton gave a press conference , about this amazing discovery of life in a Martian meteorite .
So I &apos;m highlighting just a few words and saying definitions like that rely on things that are not based on amino acids or leaves or anything that we are used to , but in fact on processes only .
And it is in fact due to this arms race between hackers and operating system designers that things go back and forth .
And then , you see sort of like a stasis coming on where the system essentially waits for a new type of innovation , like this one , which is going to spread over all the other innovations that were before and is erasing the genes that it had before , until a new type of higher level of complexity has been achieved .
And this process goes on and on and on .
In fact , it should perhaps make use of the concepts that I developed just in order to sort of capture what a simple living system might be . &quot; &quot; And the thing I came up with — I have to first give you an introduction about the idea , and maybe that would be a meaning detector , rather than a life detector .
And the way we would do that — I would like to find out how I can distinguish text that was written by a million monkeys , as opposed to text that is in our books .
So that inspired me to think about , well , what if I try to use this idea in order , not to detect random texts from texts with meaning , but rather detect the fact that there is meaning in the biomolecules that make up life .
Now the viability threshold is reached , and the frequency distribution has dramatically changed and , in fact , stabilizes .
The distribution changes to &quot; &quot; alive ! &quot; &quot; And then , once you hit the threshold where the mutation rate is so high that you cannot self-reproduce , you cannot copy the information forward to your offspring without making so many mistakes that your ability to replicate vanishes .
One of them is , if we are able to think about life in abstract terms — and we &apos;re not talking about things like plants , and we &apos;re not talking about amino acids , and we &apos;re not talking about bacteria , but we think in terms of processes — then we could start to think about life not as something that is so special to Earth , but that , in fact , could exist anywhere .
( Applause )
Now I want to share with you three things I learned about myself that day .
As I thought about that later on , I came up with a saying , which is , &quot; &quot; I collect bad wines . &quot; &quot; Because if the wine is ready and the person is there , I &apos;m opening it .
The second thing I learned that day — and this is as we clear the George Washington Bridge , which was by not a lot — ( Laughter ) I thought about , wow , I really feel one real regret .
In my own humanity and mistakes , I &apos;ve tried to get better at everything I tried .
I &apos;m saying , &quot; &quot; Please blow up . &quot; &quot; I don &apos;t want this thing to break in 20 pieces like you &apos;ve seen in those documentaries .
And as we &apos;re coming down , I had a sense of , wow , dying is not scary .
It &apos;s almost like we &apos;ve been preparing for it our whole lives .
I challenge you guys that are flying today , imagine the same thing happens on your plane — and please don &apos;t — but imagine , and how would you change ?
If you take 10,000 people at random , 9,999 have something in common : their interests in business lie on or near the Earth &apos;s surface .
The odd one out is an astronomer , and I am one of that strange breed .
( Laughter ) My talk will be in two parts . I &apos;ll talk first as an astronomer , and then as a worried member of the human race .
But let &apos;s start off by remembering that Darwin showed how we &apos;re the outcome of four billion years of evolution .
And what we try to do in astronomy and cosmology is to go back before Darwin &apos;s simple beginning , to set our Earth in a cosmic context .
And let me just run through a few slides .
This was the impact that happened last week on a comet .
If they &apos;d sent a nuke , it would have been rather more spectacular than what actually happened last Monday .
So that &apos;s another project for NASA .
That &apos;s Mars from the European Mars Express , and at New Year .
This artist &apos;s impression turned into reality when a parachute landed on Titan , Saturn &apos;s giant moon .
It landed on the surface . This is pictures taken on the way down .
That looks like a coastline .
It is indeed , but the ocean is liquid methane — the temperature minus 170 degrees centigrade .
If we go beyond our solar system , we &apos;ve learned that the stars aren &apos;t twinkly points of light .
Each one is like a sun with a retinue of planets orbiting around it .
And we can see places where stars are forming , like the Eagle Nebula . We see stars dying .
In six billion years , the sun will look like that .
And some stars die spectacularly in a supernova explosion , leaving remnants like that .
On a still bigger scale , we see entire galaxies of stars .
We see entire ecosystems where gas is being recycled .
And to the cosmologist , these galaxies are just the atoms , as it were , of the large-scale universe .
This picture shows a patch of sky so small that it would take about 100 patches like it to cover the full moon in the sky .
Through a small telescope , this would look quite blank , but you see here hundreds of little , faint smudges .
Each is a galaxy , fully like ours or Andromeda , which looks so small and faint because its light has taken 10 billion light-years to get to us .
The stars in those galaxies probably don &apos;t have planets around them .
There &apos;s scant chance of life there — that &apos;s because there &apos;s been no time for the nuclear fusion in stars to make silicon and carbon and iron , the building blocks of planets and of life .
We believe that all of this emerged from a Big Bang — a hot , dense state . So how did that amorphous Big Bang turn into our complex cosmos ?
I &apos;m going to show you a movie simulation 16 powers of 10 faster than real time , which shows a patch of the universe where the expansions have subtracted out .
But you see , as time goes on in gigayears at the bottom , you will see structures evolve as gravity feeds on small , dense irregularities , and structures develop .
And we &apos;ll end up after 13 billion years with something looking rather like our own universe .
And we compare simulated universes like that — I &apos;ll show you a better simulation at the end of my talk — with what we actually see in the sky .
Well , we can trace things back to the earlier stages of the Big Bang , but we still don &apos;t know what banged and why it banged .
That &apos;s a challenge for 21st-century science .
If my research group had a logo , it would be this picture here : an ouroboros , where you see the micro-world on the left — the world of the quantum — and on the right the large-scale universe of planets , stars and galaxies .
We know our universes are united though — links between left and right .
The everyday world is determined by atoms , how they stick together to make molecules .
Stars are fueled by how the nuclei in those atoms react together .
And , as we &apos;ve learned in the last few years , galaxies are held together by the gravitational pull of so-called dark matter : particles in huge swarms , far smaller even than atomic nuclei .
But we &apos;d like to know the synthesis symbolized at the very top .
The micro-world of the quantum is understood .
On the right hand side , gravity holds sway . Einstein explained that .
But the unfinished business for 21st-century science is to link together cosmos and micro-world with a unified theory — symbolized , as it were , gastronomically at the top of that picture . ( Laughter ) And until we have that synthesis , we won &apos;t be able to understand the very beginning of our universe because when our universe was itself the size of an atom , quantum effects could shake everything .
And so we need a theory that unifies the very large and the very small , which we don &apos;t yet have .
One idea , incidentally — and I had this hazard sign to say I &apos;m going to speculate from now on — is that our Big Bang was not the only one .
One idea is that our three-dimensional universe may be embedded in a high-dimensional space , just as you can imagine on these sheets of paper .
You can imagine ants on one of them thinking it &apos;s a two-dimensional universe , not being aware of another population of ants on the other .
So there could be another universe just a millimeter away from ours , but we &apos;re not aware of it because that millimeter is measured in some fourth spatial dimension , and we &apos;re imprisoned in our three .
And so we believe that there may be a lot more to physical reality than what we &apos;ve normally called our universe — the aftermath of our Big Bang . And here &apos;s another picture .
Bottom right depicts our universe , which on the horizon is not beyond that , but even that is just one bubble , as it were , in some vaster reality .
Many people suspect that just as we &apos;ve gone from believing in one solar system to zillions of solar systems , one galaxy to many galaxies , we have to go to many Big Bangs from one Big Bang , perhaps these many Big Bangs displaying an immense variety of properties .
Well , let &apos;s go back to this picture .
There &apos;s one challenge symbolized at the top , but there &apos;s another challenge to science symbolized at the bottom .
You want to not only synthesize the very large and the very small , but we want to understand the very complex .
And the most complex things are ourselves , midway between atoms and stars .
We depend on stars to make the atoms we &apos;re made of .
We depend on chemistry to determine our complex structure .
We clearly have to be large , compared to atoms , to have layer upon layer of complex structure .
We clearly have to be small , compared to stars and planets — otherwise we &apos;d be crushed by gravity . And in fact , we are midway .
It would take as many human bodies to make up the sun as there are atoms in each of us .
The geometric mean of the mass of a proton and the mass of the sun is 50 kilograms , within a factor of two of the mass of each person here .
Well , most of you anyway .
The science of complexity is probably the greatest challenge of all , greater than that of the very small on the left and the very large on the right .
And it &apos;s this science , which is not only enlightening our understanding of the biological world , but also transforming our world faster than ever .
And more than that , it &apos;s engendering new kinds of change .
And I now move on to the second part of my talk , and the book &quot; &quot; Our Final Century &quot; &quot; was mentioned .
If I was not a self-effacing Brit , I would mention the book myself , and I would add that it &apos;s available in paperback .
( Laughter ) And in America it was called &quot; &quot; Our Final Hour &quot; &quot; because Americans like instant gratification . ( Laughter )
But my theme is that in this century , not only has science changed the world faster than ever , but in new and different ways .
Targeted drugs , genetic modification , artificial intelligence , perhaps even implants into our brains , may change human beings themselves . And human beings , their physique and character , has not changed for thousands of years .
It may change this century .
It &apos;s new in our history .
And the human impact on the global environment — greenhouse warming , mass extinctions and so forth — is unprecedented , too .
And so , this makes this coming century a challenge .
Bio- and cybertechnologies are environmentally benign in that they offer marvelous prospects , while , nonetheless , reducing pressure on energy and resources .
But they will have a dark side .
In our interconnected world , novel technology could empower just one fanatic , or some weirdo with a mindset of those who now design computer viruses , to trigger some kind on disaster .
Indeed , catastrophe could arise simply from technical misadventure — error rather than terror .
And even a tiny probability of catastrophe is unacceptable when the downside could be of global consequence .
In fact , some years ago , Bill Joy wrote an article expressing tremendous concern about robots taking us over , etc .
I don &apos;t go along with all that , but it &apos;s interesting that he had a simple solution .
It was what he called &quot; &quot; fine-grained relinquishment . &quot; &quot; He wanted to give up the dangerous kind of science and keep the good bits . Now , that &apos;s absurdly naive for two reasons .
First , any scientific discovery has benign consequences as well as dangerous ones .
And also , when a scientist makes a discovery , he or she normally has no clue what the applications are going to be .
And so what this means is that we have to accept the risks if we are going to enjoy the benefits of science .
We have to accept that there will be hazards .
And I think we have to go back to what happened in the post-War era , post-World War II , when the nuclear scientists who &apos;d been involved in making the atomic bomb , in many cases were concerned that they should do all they could to alert the world to the dangers .
And they were inspired not by the young Einstein , who did the great work in relativity , but by the old Einstein , the icon of poster and t-shirt , who failed in his scientific efforts to unify the physical laws .
He was premature . But he was a moral compass — an inspiration to scientists who were concerned with arms control .
And perhaps the greatest living person is someone I &apos;m privileged to know , Joe Rothblatt .
Equally untidy office there , as you can see .
He &apos;s 96 years old , and he founded the Pugwash movement .
He persuaded Einstein , as his last act , to sign the famous memorandum of Bertrand Russell .
And he sets an example of the concerned scientist .
And I think to harness science optimally , to choose which doors to open and which to leave closed , we need latter-day counterparts of people like Joseph Rothblatt .
We need not just campaigning physicists , but we need biologists , computer experts and environmentalists as well .
And I think academics and independent entrepreneurs have a special obligation because they have more freedom than those in government service , or company employees subject to commercial pressure .
I wrote my book , &quot; &quot; Our Final Century , &quot; &quot; as a scientist , just a general scientist . But there &apos;s one respect , I think , in which being a cosmologist offered a special perspective , and that &apos;s that it offers an awareness of the immense future .
The stupendous time spans of the evolutionary past are now part of common culture — outside the American Bible Belt , anyway — ( Laughter ) but most people , even those who are familiar with evolution , aren &apos;t mindful that even more time lies ahead .
The sun has been shining for four and a half billion years , but it &apos;ll be another six billion years before its fuel runs out .
On that schematic picture , a sort of time-lapse picture , we &apos;re halfway .
And it &apos;ll be another six billion before that happens , and any remaining life on Earth is vaporized .
There &apos;s an unthinking tendency to imagine that humans will be there , experiencing the sun &apos;s demise , but any life and intelligence that exists then will be as different from us as we are from bacteria .
The unfolding of intelligence and complexity still has immensely far to go , here on Earth and probably far beyond .
So we are still at the beginning of the emergence of complexity in our Earth and beyond .
If you represent the Earth &apos;s lifetime by a single year , say from January when it was made to December , the 21st-century would be a quarter of a second in June — a tiny fraction of the year .
But even in this concertinaed cosmic perspective , our century is very , very special , the first when humans can change themselves and their home planet .
As I should have shown this earlier , it will not be humans who witness the end point of the sun ; it will be creatures as different from us as we are from bacteria .
When Einstein died in 1955 , one striking tribute to his global status was this cartoon by Herblock in the Washington Post .
The plaque reads , &quot; &quot; Albert Einstein lived here . &quot; &quot; And I &apos;d like to end with a vignette , as it were , inspired by this image .
We &apos;ve been familiar for 40 years with this image : the fragile beauty of land , ocean and clouds , contrasted with the sterile moonscape on which the astronauts left their footprints .
But let &apos;s suppose some aliens had been watching our pale blue dot in the cosmos from afar , not just for 40 years , but for the entire 4.5 billion-year history of our Earth .
What would they have seen ?
Over nearly all that immense time , Earth &apos;s appearance would have changed very gradually .
The only abrupt worldwide change would have been major asteroid impacts or volcanic super-eruptions .
Apart from those brief traumas , nothing happens suddenly .
The continental landmasses drifted around .
Ice cover waxed and waned .
Successions of new species emerged , evolved and became extinct .
But in just a tiny sliver of the Earth &apos;s history , the last one-millionth part , a few thousand years , the patterns of vegetation altered much faster than before .
This signaled the start of agriculture .
Change has accelerated as human populations rose .
Then other things happened even more abruptly .
Within just 50 years — that &apos;s one hundredth of one millionth of the Earth &apos;s age — the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere started to rise , and ominously fast .
The planet became an intense emitter of radio waves — the total output from all TV and cell phones and radar transmissions . And something else happened .
Metallic objects — albeit very small ones , a few tons at most — escaped into orbit around the Earth .
Some journeyed to the moons and planets .
A race of advanced extraterrestrials watching our solar system from afar could confidently predict Earth &apos;s final doom in another six billion years .
But could they have predicted this unprecedented spike less than halfway through the Earth &apos;s life ?
These human-induced alterations occupying overall less than a millionth of the elapsed lifetime and seemingly occurring with runaway speed ?
If they continued their vigil , what might these hypothetical aliens witness in the next hundred years ?
Will some spasm foreclose Earth &apos;s future ?
Or will the biosphere stabilize ?
Or will some of the metallic objects launched from the Earth spawn new oases , a post-human life elsewhere ?
The science done by the young Einstein will continue as long as our civilization , but for civilization to survive , we &apos;ll need the wisdom of the old Einstein — humane , global and farseeing .
And whatever happens in this uniquely crucial century will resonate into the remote future and perhaps far beyond the Earth , far beyond the Earth as depicted here .
Thank you very much .
( Applause )
I &apos;m McKenna Pope . I &apos;m 14 years old , and when I was 13 , I convinced one of the largest toy companies , toymakers , in the world , Hasbro , to change the way that they marketed one of their most best-selling products .
So allow me to tell you about it .
So I have a brother , Gavin .
When this whole shebang happened , he was four .
He loved to cook .
He was always getting ingredients out of the fridge and mixing them into these , needless to say , uneatable concoctions , or making invisible macaroni and cheese .
He wanted to be a chef really badly .
And so what better gift for a kid who wanted to be a chef than an Easy-Bake Oven . Right ?
I mean , we all had those when we were little .
And he wanted one so badly .
But then he started to realize something .
In the commercials , and on the boxes for the Easy-Bake Ovens , Hasbro marketed them specifically to girls .
And the way that they did this was they would only feature girls on the boxes or in the commercials , and there would be flowery prints all over the ovens and it would be in bright pink and purple , very gender-specific colors to females , right ?
So it kind of was sending a message that only girls are supposed to cook ; boys aren &apos;t .
And this discouraged my brother a lot .
He thought that he wasn &apos;t supposed to want to be a chef , because that was something that girls did .
Girls cooked ; boys didn &apos;t , or so was the message that Hasbro was sending .
And this got me thinking , God , I wish there was a way that I could change this , that could I have my voice heard by Hasbro so I could ask them and tell them what they were doing wrong and ask them to change it .
And that got me thinking about a website that I had learned about a few months prior called Change.org.
Change.org is an online petition-sharing platform where you can create a petition and share it across all of these social media networks , through Facebook , through Twitter , through YouTube , through Reddit , through Tumblr , through whatever you can think of .
And so I created a petition along with the YouTube video that I added to the petition basically asking Hasbro to change the way that they marketed it , in featuring boys in the commercials , on the boxes , and most of all creating them in less gender-specific colors .
So this petition started to take off — humongously fast , you have no idea .
I was getting interviewed by all these national news outlets and press outlets , and it was amazing .
In three weeks , maybe three and a half , I had 46,000 signatures on this petition .
( Applause ) Thank you .
So , needless to say , it was crazy .
Eventually , Hasbro themselves invited me to their headquarters so they could go and unveil their new Easy-Bake Oven product to me in black , silver and blue .
It was literally one of the best moments of my life .
It was like &quot; &quot; Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory . &quot; &quot; That thing was amazing .
What I didn &apos;t realize at the time , however , was that I had become an activist , I could change something , that even as a kid , or maybe even especially as a kid , my voice mattered , and your voice matters too .
I want to let you know it &apos;s not going to be easy , and it wasn &apos;t easy for me , because I faced a lot of obstacles .
People online , and sometimes even in real life , were disrespectful to me and my family , and talked about how the whole thing was a waste of time , and it really discouraged me .
And actually , I have some examples , because what &apos;s better revenge than displaying their idiocy ?
So , let &apos;s see .
From user name Liquidsore29 — interesting user names we have here — &quot; Disgusting liberal moms making their sons gay . &quot;
Liquidsore29 , really ? Really ? Okay .
How about from Whiteboy77AGS : &quot; People always need something to ( female dog ) about . &quot;
From Jeffrey Gutierrez : &quot; OMG , shut up . You just want money and attention . &quot;
So it was comments like these that really discouraged me from wanting to make change in the future because I thought , people don &apos;t care , people think it &apos;s a waste of time , and people are going to be disrespectful to me and my family .
It hurt me , and it made me think , what &apos;s the point of making change in the future ?
But then I started to realize something .
Haters gonna hate .
Come on , say it with me . One , two , three : Haters gonna hate .
So let your haters hate , you know what , and make your change , because I know you can .
I look out into this crowd , and I see 400 people who came out because they wanted to know how they could make a change , and I know that you can , and all of you watching at home can too because you have so much that you can do and that you believe in , and you can trade it across all these social media , through Facebook , through Twitter , through YouTube , through Reddit , through Tumblr , through whatever else you can think of .
And you can make that change .
You can take what you believe in and turn it into a cause and change it .
And that spark that you &apos;ve been hearing about all day today , you can use that spark that you have within you and turn it into a fire .
Thank you .
( Applause )
Do you know how many species of flowering plants there are ?
There are a quarter of a million — at least those are the ones we know about — a quarter of a million species of flowering plants .
And flowers are a real bugger .
They &apos;re really difficult for plants to produce .
They take an enormous amount of energy and a lot of resources .
Why would they go to that bother ?
And the answer of course , like so many things in the world , is sex .
I know what &apos;s on your mind when you &apos;re looking at these pictures .
And the reason that sexual reproduction is so important — there are lots of other things that plants can do to reproduce .
You can take cuttings ; they can sort of have sex with themselves ; they can pollinate themselves .
But they really need to spread their genes to mix with other genes so that they can adapt to environmental niches .
Evolution works that way .
Now the way that plants transmit that information is through pollen .
Some of you may have seen some of these pictures before .
As I say , every home should have a scanning electron microscope to be able to see these .
And there is as many different kinds of pollen as there are flowering plants .
And that &apos;s actually rather useful for forensics and so on .
Most pollen that causes hay fever for us is from plants that use the wind to disseminate the pollen , and that &apos;s a very inefficient process , which is why it gets up our noses so much .
Because you have to chuck out masses and masses of it , hoping that your sex cells , your male sex cells , which are held within the pollen , will somehow reach another flower just by chance .
So all the grasses , which means all of the cereal crops , and most of the trees have wind-borne pollen .
But most species actually use insects to do their bidding , and that &apos;s more intelligent in a way , because the pollen , they don &apos;t need so much of it .
The insects and other species can take the pollen , transfer it directly to where it &apos;s required .
So we &apos;re aware , obviously , of the relationship between insects and plants .
There &apos;s a symbiotic relationship there , whether it &apos;s flies or birds or bees , they &apos;re getting something in return , and that something in return is generally nectar .
Sometimes that symbiosis has led to wonderful adaptations — the hummingbird hawk-moth is beautiful in its adaptation .
The plant gets something , and the hawk-moth spreads the pollen somewhere else .
Plants have evolved to create little landing strips here and there for bees that might have lost their way .
There are markings on many plants that look like other insects .
These are the anthers of a lily , cleverly done so that when the unsuspecting insect lands on it , the anther flips up and whops it on the back with a great load of pollen that it then goes to another plant with .
And there &apos;s an orchid that might look to you as if it &apos;s got jaws , and in a way , it has ; it forces the insect to crawl out , getting covered in pollen that it takes somewhere else .
Orchids : there are 20,000 , at least , species of orchids — amazingly , amazingly diverse .
And they get up to all sorts of tricks .
They have to try and attract pollinators to do their bidding .
This orchid , known as Darwin &apos;s orchid , because it &apos;s one that he studied and made a wonderful prediction when he saw it — you can see that there &apos;s a very long nectar tube that descends down from the orchid .
And basically what the insect has to do — we &apos;re in the middle of the flower — it has to stick its little proboscis right into the middle of that and all the way down that nectar tube to get to the nectar .
And Darwin said , looking at this flower , &quot; I guess something has coevolved with this . &quot;
And sure enough , there &apos;s the insect .
And I mean , normally it kind of rolls it away , but in its erect form , that &apos;s what it looks like .
Now you can imagine that if nectar is such a valuable thing and expensive for the plant to produce and it attracts lots of pollinators , then , just as in human sex , people might start to deceive .
They might say , &quot; &quot; I &apos;ve got a bit of nectar . Do you want to come and get it ? &quot; &quot; Now this is a plant .
This is a plant here that insects in South Africa just love , and they &apos;ve evolved with a long proboscis to get the nectar at the bottom .
And this is the mimic .
So this is a plant that is mimicking the first plant .
And here is the long-probosced fly that has not gotten any nectar from the mimic , because the mimic doesn &apos;t give it any nectar . It thought it would get some .
So not only has the fly not got the nectar from the mimic plant , it &apos;s also — if you look very closely just at the head end , you can see that it &apos;s got a bit of pollen that it would be transmitting to another plant , if only some botanist hadn &apos;t come along and stuck it to a blue piece of card .
( Laughter ) Now deceit carries on through the plant kingdom .
This flower with its black dots : they might look like black dots to us , but if I tell you , to a male insect of the right species , that looks like two females who are really , really hot to trot .
( Laughter ) And when the insect gets there and lands on it , dousing itself in pollen , of course , that it &apos;s going to take to another plant , if you look at the every-home-should-have-one scanning electron microscope picture , you can see that there are actually some patterning there , which is three-dimensional .
So it probably even feels good for the insect , as well as looking good .
And these electron microscope pictures — here &apos;s one of an orchid mimicking an insect — you can see that different parts of the structure have different colors and different textures to our eye , have very , very different textures to what an insect might perceive .
And this one is evolved to mimic a glossy metallic surface you see on some beetles .
And under the scanning electron microscope , you can see the surface there — really quite different from the other surfaces we looked at .
Sometimes the whole plant mimics an insect , even to us .
I mean , I think that looks like some sort of flying animal or beast .
It &apos;s a wonderful , amazing thing .
This one &apos;s clever . It &apos;s called obsidian .
I think of it as insidium sometimes .
To the right species of bee , this looks like another very aggressive bee , and it goes and bonks it on the head lots and lots of times to try and drive it away , and , of course , covers itself with pollen .
The other thing it does is that this plant mimics another orchid that has a wonderful store of food for insects .
And this one doesn &apos;t have anything for them .
So it &apos;s deceiving on two levels — fabulous .
( Laughter ) Here we see ylang ylang , the component of many perfumes .
I actually smelt someone with some on earlier .
And the flowers don &apos;t really have to be that gaudy .
They &apos;re sending out a fantastic array of scent to any insect that &apos;ll have it .
This one doesn &apos;t smell so good .
This is a flower that really , really smells pretty nasty and is designed , again , evolved , to look like carrion .
So flies love this .
They fly in and they pollinate .
This , which is helicodiceros , is also known as dead horse arum .
I don &apos;t know what a dead horse actually smells like , but this one probably smells pretty much like it .
It &apos;s really horrible .
And blowflies just can &apos;t help themselves .
They fly into this thing , and they fly all the way down it .
They lay their eggs in it , thinking it &apos;s a nice bit of carrion , and not realizing that there &apos;s no food for the eggs , that the eggs are going to die , but the plant , meanwhile , has benefited , because the bristles release and the flies disappear to pollinate the next flower — fantastic .
Here &apos;s arum , arum maculatum , &quot; &quot; lords and ladies , &quot; &quot; or &quot; &quot; cuckoo-pint &quot; &quot; in this country .
I photographed this thing last week in Dorset .
This thing heats up by about 15 degrees above ambient temperature — amazing .
And if you look down into it , there &apos;s this sort of dam past the spadix , flies get attracted by the heat — which is boiling off volatile chemicals , little midges — and they get trapped underneath in this container .
They drink this fabulous nectar and then they &apos;re all a bit sticky .
At night they get covered in pollen , which showers down over them , and then the bristles that we saw above , they sort of wilt and allow all these midges out , covered in pollen — fabulous thing .
Now if you think that &apos;s fabulous , this is one of my great favorites .
This is the philodendron selloum .
For anyone here from Brazil , you &apos;ll know about this plant .
This is the most amazing thing .
That sort of phallic bit there is about a foot long .
And it does something that no other plant that I know of does , and that is that when it flowers — that &apos;s the spadix in the middle there — for a period of about two days , it metabolizes in a way which is rather similar to mammals .
So instead of having starch , which is the food of plants , it takes something rather similar to brown fat and burns it at such a rate that it &apos;s burning fat , metabolizing , about the rate of a small cat .
And that &apos;s twice the energy output , weight for weight , than a hummingbird — absolutely astonishing .
This thing does something else which is unusual .
Not only will it raise itself to 115 Fahrenheit , 43 or 44 degrees Centigrade , for two days , but it keeps constant temperature .
There &apos;s a thermoregulation mechanism in there that keeps constant temperature .
&quot; &quot; Now why does it do this , &quot; &quot; I hear you ask .
Now wouldn &apos;t you know it , there &apos;s some beetles that just love to make love at that temperature .
And they get inside , and they get it all on .
( Laughter ) And the plant showers them with pollen , and off they go and pollinate .
And what a wonderful thing it is .
Now most pollinators that we think about are insects , but actually in the tropics , many birds and butterflies pollinate .
And many of the tropical flowers are red , and that &apos;s because butterflies and birds see similarly to us , we think , and can see the color red very well .
But if you look at the spectrum , birds and us , we see red , green and blue and see that spectrum .
Insects see green , blue and ultraviolet , and they see various shades of ultraviolet .
So there &apos;s something that goes on off the end there .
&quot; &quot; And wouldn &apos;t it be great if we could somehow see what that is , &quot; &quot; I hear you ask .
Well yes we can .
So what is an insect seeing ?
Last week I took these pictures of rock rose , helianthemum , in Dorset .
These are little yellow flowers like we all see , little yellow flowers all over the place .
And this is what it looks like with visible light .
This is what it looks like if you take out the red .
Most bees don &apos;t perceive red .
And then I put some ultraviolet filters on my camera and took a very , very long exposure with the particular frequencies of ultraviolet light and this is what I got .
And that &apos;s a real fantastic bull &apos;s eye .
Now we don &apos;t know exactly what a bee sees , any more than you know what I &apos;m seeing when I call this red .
We can &apos;t know what &apos;s going on in — let alone an insect &apos;s — another human being &apos;s mind .
But the contrast will look something like that , so standing out a lot from the background .
Here &apos;s another little flower — different range of ultraviolet frequencies , different filters to match the pollinators .
And that &apos;s the sort of thing that it would be seeing .
Just in case you think that all yellow flowers have this property — no flower was damaged in the process of this shot ; it was just attached to the tripod , not killed — then under ultraviolet light , look at that .
And that could be the basis of a sunscreen because sunscreens work by absorbing ultraviolet light .
So maybe the chemical in that would be useful .
Finally , there &apos;s one of evening primrose that Bjorn Rorslett from Norway sent me — fantastic hidden pattern .
And I love the idea of something hidden .
I think there &apos;s something poetic here , that these pictures taken with ultraviolet filter , the main use of that filter is for astronomers to take pictures of Venus — actually the clouds of Venus .
That &apos;s the main use of that filter .
Venus , of course , is the god of love and fertility , which is the flower story .
And just as flowers spend a lot of effort trying to get pollinators to do their bidding , they &apos;ve also somehow managed to persuade us to plant great fields full of them and give them to each other at times of birth and death , and particularly at marriage , which , when you think of it , is the moment that encapsulates the transfer of genetic material from one organism to another .
Thank you very much .
( Applause )
First , of course you know , a leader needs the guts to stand out and be ridiculed .
Now , notice that the leader embraces him as an equal .
It takes guts to stand out like that .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) And here comes a second follower .
Now it &apos;s not a lone nut , it &apos;s not two nuts — three is a crowd , and a crowd is news .
So a movement must be public .
Now , here come two more people , and immediately after , three more people .
Now we &apos;ve got momentum . This is the tipping point .
( Laughter ) So , notice that , as more people join in , it &apos;s less risky .
So first , if you are the type , like the shirtless dancing guy that is standing alone , remember the importance of nurturing your first few followers as equals so it &apos;s clearly about the movement , not you .
The biggest lesson , if you noticed — did you catch it ? — is that leadership is over-glorified .
And when you find a lone nut doing something great , have the guts to be the first one to stand up and join in .
And what a perfect place to do that , at TED .
( Applause )
I thought I &apos;d tell you a little about what I like to write .
And I like to immerse myself in my topics .
I just like to dive right in and become sort of a human guinea pig .
And I see my life as a series of experiments .
So , I work for Esquire magazine , and a couple of years ago , I wrote an article called &quot; &quot; My Outsourced Life , &quot; &quot; where I hired a team of people in Bangalore , India , to live my life for me .
So , they answered my emails .
They answered my phone .
They argued with my wife for me , and they read my son bedtime stories .
It was the best month of my life , because I just sat back and I read books and watched movies .
It was a wonderful experience .
More recently , I wrote an article for Esquire called — about radical honesty .
And this is a movement where — this is started by a psychologist in Virginia , who says that you should never , ever lie , except maybe during poker and golf , his only exceptions .
And , more than that , whatever is on your brain should come out of your mouth .
So , I decided I would try this for a month .
This was the worst month of my life .
( Laughter ) I do not recommend this at all .
To give you a sense of the experience , the article was called , &quot; &quot; I Think You &apos;re Fat . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) So , that was hard .
My most recent book — my previous book was called &quot; &quot; The Know-It-All , &quot; &quot; and it was about the year I spent reading the Encyclopedia Britannica from A to Z in my quest to learn everything in the world , or more precisely from Aak , which is a type of East Asian music , all the way to Zwyiec , which is — well , I don &apos;t want to ruin the ending .
( Laughter ) It &apos;s a very exciting twist ending , like an O. Henry novel , so I won &apos;t ruin it .
But I love that one , because that was an experiment about how much information one human brain could absorb .
Although , listening to Kevin Kelly , you don &apos;t have to remember anything .
You can just Google it .
So , I wasted some time there .
I love those experiments , but I think that the most profound and life-changing experiment that I &apos;ve done is my most recent experiment , where I spent a year trying to follow all of the rules of the Bible , &quot; The Year of Living Biblically . &quot;
And I undertook this for two reasons .
The first was that I grew up with no religion at all .
As I say in my book , I &apos;m Jewish in the same way the Olive Garden is Italian .
( Laughter ) So , not very .
But I &apos;ve become increasingly interested in religion .
I do think it &apos;s the defining issue of our time , or one of the main ones .
And I have a son . I want to know what to teach him .
So , I decided to dive in head first , and try to live the Bible .
The second reason I undertook this is because I &apos;m concerned about the rise of fundamentalism , religious fundamentalism , and people who say they take the Bible literally , which is , according to some polls , as high as 45 or 50 percent of America .
So I decided , what if you really did take the Bible literally ?
I decided to take it to its logical conclusion and take everything in the Bible literally , without picking and choosing .
The first thing I did was I got a stack of bibles .
I had Christian bibles .
I had Jewish bibles .
A friend of mine sent me something called a hip-hop bible , where the twenty-third Psalm is rendered as , &quot; &quot; The Lord is all that , &quot; &quot; as opposed to what I knew it as , &quot; &quot; The Lord is my shepherd . &quot; &quot; Then I went down and I read several versions , and I wrote down every single law that I could find .
And this was a very long list — over 700 rules .
And they range from the famous ones that I had heard of — The Ten Commandments , love your neighbor , be fruitful and multiply .
So I wanted to follow those .
And actually , I take my projects very seriously , because I had twins during my year , so I definitely take my projects seriously .
But I also wanted to follow the hundreds of arcane and obscure laws that are in the Bible .
There is the law in Leviticus , &quot; You cannot shave the corners of your beard . &quot;
I didn &apos;t know where my corners were , so I decided to let the whole thing grow , and this is what I looked like by the end .
As you can imagine , I spent a lot of time at airport security .
( Laughter ) My wife wouldn &apos;t kiss me for the last two months .
So , certainly the challenge was there .
The Bible says you cannot wear clothes made of mixed fibers , so I thought , &quot; &quot; Sounds strange , but I &apos;ll try it . &quot; &quot; You only know if you try it .
I got rid of all my poly-cotton T-shirts .
The Bible says that if two men are in a fight , and the wife of one of those men grabs the testicles of the other man , then her hand shall be cut off .
So , I wanted to follow that rule .
( Laughter ) That one I followed by default , by not getting in a fight with a man whose wife was standing nearby , looking like she had a strong grip . ( Laughter )
So — oh , there &apos;s another shot of my beard .
I will say it was an amazing year because it really was life changing , and incredibly challenging .
And there were two types of laws that were particularly challenging .
The first was avoiding the little sins that we all commit every day .
You know , I could spend a year not killing , but spending a year not gossiping , not coveting , not lying — you know , I live in New York , and I work as a journalist , so this was 75 , 80 percent of my day I had to do it .
But it was really interesting , because I was able to make some progress , because I couldn &apos;t believe how much my behavior changed my thoughts .
This was one of the huge lessons of the year , is that I almost pretended to be a better person , and I became a little bit of a better person .
So I had always thought , you know , &quot; &quot; You change your mind , and you change your behavior , &quot; &quot; but it &apos;s often the other way around .
You change your behavior , and you change your mind .
So , you know , if you want to become more compassionate , you visit sick people in the hospital , and you will become more compassionate .
You donate money to a cause , and you become emotionally involved in that cause .
So , it really was cognitive psychology — you know , cognitive dissonance — that I was experiencing .
The Bible actually talks about cognitive psychology , very primitive cognitive psychology .
In the Proverbs , it says that if you smile , you will become happier , which , as we know , is actually true .
The second type of rule that was difficult to obey was the rules that will get you into a little trouble in twenty-first-century America .
And perhaps the clearest example of this is stoning adulterers .
( Laughter ) But it &apos;s a big part of the Bible , so I figured I had to address it .
So , I was able to stone one adulterer .
It happened — I was in the park , and I was dressed in my biblical clothing , so sandals and sort of a white robe , you know , because again , the outer affects the inner .
I wanted to see how dressing biblically affected my mind .
And this man came up to me and he said , &quot; Why are you dressed like that ? &quot;
And I explained my project , and he said , &quot; &quot; Well , I am an adulterer , are you going to stone me ? &quot; &quot; And I said , &quot; &quot; Well , that would be great ! &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) And I actually took out a handful of stones from my pocket that I had been carrying around for weeks , hoping for just this interaction — and , you know , they were pebbles — but he grabbed them out of my hand .
He was actually an elderly man , mid-70s , just so you know .
But he &apos;s still an adulterer , and still quite angry .
He grabbed them out of my hand and threw them at my face , and I felt that I could — eye for an eye — I could retaliate , and throw one back at him .
So that was my experience stoning , and it did allow me to talk about , in a more serious way , these big issues .
How can the Bible be so barbaric in some places , and yet so incredibly wise in others ?
How should we view the Bible ?
Should we view it , you know , as original intent , like a sort of a Scalia version of the Bible ?
How was the Bible written ?
And actually , since this is a tech crowd , I talk in the book about how the Bible actually reminds me of the Wikipedia , because it has all of these authors and editors over hundreds of years .
And it &apos;s sort of evolved .
It &apos;s not a book that was written and came down from on high .
So I thought I would end by telling you just a couple of the take-aways , the bigger lessons that I learned from my year .
The first is , thou shalt not take the Bible literally .
This became very , very clear , early on .
Because if you do , then you end up acting like a crazy person , and stoning adulterers , or — here &apos;s another example .
Well , that &apos;s another . I did spend some time shepherding .
( Laughter ) It &apos;s a very relaxing vocation . I recommend it .
But this one is — the Bible says that you cannot touch women during certain times of the month , and more than that , you cannot sit on a seat where a menstruating woman has sat .
And my wife thought this was very offensive , so she sat in every seat in our apartment , and I had to spend much of the year standing until I bought my own seat and carried it around .
So , you know , I met with creationists .
I went to the creationists &apos; museum .
And these are the ultimate literalists .
And it was fascinating , because they were not stupid people at all .
I would wager that their IQ is exactly the same as the average evolutionist .
It &apos;s just that their faith is so strong in this literal interpretation of the Bible that they distort all the data to fit their model .
And they go through these amazing mental gymnastics to accomplish this .
And I will say , though , the museum is gorgeous .
They really did a fantastic job .
If you &apos;re ever in Kentucky , there &apos;s , you can see a movie of the flood , and they have sprinklers in the ceiling that will sprinkle on you during the flood scenes .
So , whatever you think of creationism — and I think it &apos;s crazy — they did a great job .
( Laughter ) Another lesson is that thou shalt give thanks .
And this one was a big lesson because I was praying , giving these prayers of thanksgiving , which was odd for an agnostic .
But I was saying thanks all the time , every day , and I started to change my perspective .
And I started to realize the hundreds of little things that go right every day , that I didn &apos;t even notice , that I took for granted , as opposed to focusing on the three or four that went wrong .
So , this is actually a key to happiness for me , is to just remember when I came over here , the car didn &apos;t flip over , and I didn &apos;t trip coming up the stairs .
It &apos;s a remarkable thing .
Third , that thou shall have reverence .
This one was unexpected because I started the year as an agnostic , and by the end of the year , I became what a friend of mine calls a reverent agnostic , which I love .
And I &apos;m trying to start it as a movement .
So , if anyone wants to join , the basic idea is , whether or not there is a God , there &apos;s something important and beautiful about the idea of sacredness , and that our rituals can be sacred .
The Sabbath can be sacred .
This was one of the great things about my year , doing the Sabbath , because I am a workaholic , so having this one day where you cannot work , it really , that changed my life .
So , this idea of sacredness , whether or not there is a God .
Thou shall not stereotype .
This one happened because I spent a lot of time with various religious communities throughout America because I wanted it to be more than about my journey .
I wanted it to be about religion in America .
So , I spent time with evangelical Christians , and Hasidic Jews , and the Amish .
I &apos;m very proud because I think I &apos;m the only person in America to out Bible-talk a Jehovah &apos;s Witness .
( Laughter ) After three and a half hours , he looked at his watch , he &apos;s like , &quot; &quot; I gotta go . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Oh , thank you very much .
Thank you . Bless you , bless you .
But it was interesting because I had some very preconceived notions about , for instance , evangelical Christianity , and I found that it &apos;s such a wide and varied movement that it is difficult to make generalizations about it .
There &apos;s a group I met with called the Red Letter Christians , and they focus on the red words in the Bible , which are the ones that Jesus spoke .
That &apos;s how they printed them in the old Bibles .
And their argument is that Jesus never talked about homosexuality .
They have a pamphlet that says , &quot; Here &apos;s what Jesus said about homosexuality , &quot; and you open it up , and there &apos;s nothing in it .
So , they say Jesus did talk a lot about helping the outcasts , helping poor people .
So , this was very inspiring to me .
I recommend Jim Wallis and Tony Campolo .
They &apos;re very inspiring leaders , even though I disagree with much of what they say .
Also , thou shalt not disregard the irrational .
This one was very unexpected because , you know , I grew up with the scientific worldview , and I was shocked learning how much of my life is governed by irrational forces .
And the thing is , if they &apos;re not harmful , they &apos;re not to be completely dismissed .
Because I learned that — I was thinking , I was doing all these rituals , these biblical rituals , separating my wool and linen , and I would ask these religious people &quot; Why would the Bible possibly tell us to do this ? Why would God care ? &quot;
And they said , &quot; &quot; We don &apos;t know , but it &apos;s just rituals that give us meaning . &quot; &quot; And I would say , &quot; &quot; But that &apos;s crazy . &quot; &quot; And they would say , &quot; &quot; Well , what about you ?
You blow out candles on top of a birthday cake .
If a guy from Mars came down and saw , here &apos;s one guy blowing out the fire on top of a cake versus another guy not wearing clothes of mixed fabrics , would the Martians say , &apos; Well , that guy , he makes sense , but that guy &apos;s crazy ? &apos; &quot; &quot; So no , I think that rituals are , by nature , irrational .
So the key is to choose the right rituals , the ones that are not harmful — but rituals by themselves are not to be dismissed .
And finally I learned that thou shall pick and choose .
And this one I learned because I tried to follow everything in the Bible .
And I failed miserably .
Because you can &apos;t .
You have to pick and choose . And anyone who follows the Bible is going to be picking and choosing .
The key is to pick and choose the right parts .
There &apos;s the phrase called cafeteria religion , and the fundamentalists will use it in a denigrating way , and they &apos;ll say , &quot; &quot; Oh , it &apos;s just cafeteria religion .
You &apos;re just picking and choosing . &quot; &quot; But my argument is , &quot; &quot; What &apos;s wrong with cafeterias ? &quot; &quot; I &apos;ve had some great meals at cafeterias .
I &apos;ve also had some meals that make me want to dry heave .
So , it &apos;s about choosing the parts of the Bible about compassion , about tolerance , about loving your neighbor , as opposed to the parts about homosexuality is a sin , or intolerance , or violence , which are very much in the Bible as well .
So if we are to find any meaning in this book , then we have to really engage it , and wrestle with it .
And I thought I &apos;d end with just a couple more .
There &apos;s me reading the Bible .
That &apos;s how I hailed taxicabs .
( Laughter ) Seriously , and it worked . And yes , that was actually a rented sheep , so I had to return that in the morning , but it served well for a day .
So , anyway , thank you so much for letting me speak .
In my industry , we believe that images can change the world .
Okay , we &apos;re naive , we &apos;re bright-eyed and bushy-tailed .
The truth is that we know that the images themselves don &apos;t change the world , but we &apos;re also aware that , since the beginning of photography , images have provoked reactions in people , and those reactions have caused change to happen .
So let &apos;s begin with a group of images .
I &apos;d be extremely surprised if you didn &apos;t recognize many or most of them .
They &apos;re best described as iconic : so iconic , perhaps , they &apos;re cliches .
In fact , they &apos;re so well-known that you might even recognize them in a slightly or somewhat different form .
( Laughter ) But I think we &apos;re looking for something more .
We &apos;re looking for something more .
We &apos;re looking for images that shine an uncompromising light on crucial issues , images that transcend borders , that transcend religions , images that provoke us to step up and do something — in other words , to act .
Well , this image you &apos;ve all seen .
It changed our view of the physical world .
We had never seen our planet from this perspective before .
Many people credit a lot of the birth of the environmental movement to our seeing the planet like this for the first time — its smallness , its fragility .
Forty years later , this group , more than most , are well aware of the destructive power that our species can wield over our environment .
And at last , we appear to be doing something about it .
This destructive power takes many different forms .
For example , these images taken by Brent Stirton in the Congo .
These gorillas were murdered , some would even say crucified , and unsurprisingly , they sparked international outrage .
Most recently , we &apos;ve been tragically reminded of the destructive power of nature itself with the recent earthquake in Haiti .
Well , I think what is far worse is man &apos;s destructive power over man .
Samuel Pisar , an Auschwitz survivor , said , and I &apos;ll quote him , &quot; &quot; The Holocaust teaches us that nature , even in its cruelest moments , is benign in comparison with man , when he loses his moral compass and his reason . &quot; &quot; There &apos;s another kind of crucifixion .
The horrifying images from Abu Ghraib as well as the images from Guantanamo had a profound impact .
The publication of those images , as opposed to the images themselves , caused a government to change its policies .
Some would argue that it is those images that did more to fuel the insurgency in Iraq than virtually any other single act .
Furthermore , those images forever removed the so-called moral high ground of the occupying forces .
Let &apos;s go back a little .
In the 1960s and 1970s , the Vietnam War was basically shown in America &apos;s living rooms day in , day out .
News photos brought people face to face with the victims of the war : a little girl burned by napalm , a student killed by the National Guard at Kent State University in Ohio during a protest .
In fact , these images became the voices of protest themselves .
Now , images have power to shed light of understanding on suspicion , ignorance , and in particular — I &apos;ve given a lot of talks on this but I &apos;ll just show one image — the issue of HIV / AIDS .
In the 1980s , the stigmatization of people with the disease was an enormous barrier to even discussing or addressing it .
A simple act , in 1987 , of the most famous woman in the world , the Princess of Wales , touching an HIV / AIDS infected baby did a great deal , especially in Europe , to stop that .
She , better than most , knew the power of an image .
So when we are confronted by a powerful image , we all have a choice : We can look away , or we can address the image .
Thankfully , when these photos appeared in The Guardian in 1998 , they put a lot of focus and attention and , in the end , a lot of money towards the Sudan famine relief efforts .
Did the images change the world ?
No , but they had a major impact .
Images often push us to question our core beliefs and our responsibilities to each other .
We all saw those images after Katrina , and I think for millions of people they had a very strong impact .
And I think it &apos;s very unlikely that they were far from the minds of Americans when they went to vote in November 2008 .
Unfortunately , some very important images are deemed too graphic or disturbing for us to see them .
I &apos;ll show you one photo here , and it &apos;s a photo by Eugene Richards of an Iraq War veteran from an extraordinary piece of work , which has never been published , called War Is Personal .
But images don &apos;t need to be graphic in order to remind us of the tragedy of war .
John Moore set up this photo at Arlington Cemetery .
After all the tense moments of conflict in all the conflict zones of the world , there &apos;s one photograph from a much quieter place that haunts me still , much more than the others .
Ansel Adams said , and I &apos;m going to disagree with him , &quot; You don &apos;t take a photograph , you make it . &quot;
In my view , it &apos;s not the photographer who makes the photo , it &apos;s you .
We bring to each image our own values , our own belief systems , and as a result of that , the image resonates with us .
My company has 70 million images .
I have one image in my office .
Here it is .
I hope that the next time you see an image that sparks something in you , you &apos;ll better understand why , and I know that speaking to this audience , you &apos;ll definitely do something about it .
And thank you to all the photographers .
( Applause )
Francesca Fedeli : Ciao .
So he &apos;s Mario . He &apos;s our son .
He was born two and a half years ago , and I had a pretty tough pregnancy because I had to stay still in a bed for , like , eight months .
But in the end everything seemed to be under control .
So he got the right weight at birth .
He got the right Apgar index .
So we were pretty reassured by this .
But at the end , 10 days later after he was born , we discovered that he had a stroke .
As you might know , a stroke is a brain injury .
A perinatal stroke could be something that can happen during the nine months of pregnancy or just suddenly after the birth , and in his case , as you can see , the right part of his brain has gone .
So the effect that this stroke could have on Mario &apos;s body could be the fact that he couldn &apos;t be able to control the left side of his body .
Just imagine , if you have a computer and a printer and you want to transmit , to input to print out a document , but the printer doesn &apos;t have the right drives , so the same is for Mario .
It &apos;s just like , he would like to move his left side of his body , but he &apos;s not able to transmit the right input to move his left arm and left leg .
So life had to change .
We needed to change our schedule .
We needed to change the impact that this birth had on our life .
Roberto D &apos;Angelo : As you may imagine , unfortunately , we were not ready .
Nobody taught us how to deal with such kinds of disabilities , and as many questions as possible started to come to our minds .
And that has been really a tough time .
Questions , some basics , like , you know , why did this happen to us ?
And what went wrong ?
Some more tough , like , really , what will be the impact on Mario &apos;s life ?
I mean , at the end , will he be able to work ?
And , you know , as a parent , especially for the first time , why is he not going to be better than us ?
And this , indeed , really is tough to say , but a few months later , we realized that we were really feeling like a failure .
I mean , the only real product of our life , at the end , was a failure .
And you know , it was not a failure for ourselves in itself , but it was a failure that will impact his full life .
Honestly , we went down .
I mean we went really down , but at the end , we started to look at him , and we said , we have to react .
So immediately , as Francesca said , we changed our life .
We started physiotherapy , we started the rehabilitation , and one of the paths that we were following in terms of rehabilitation is the mirror neurons pilot .
Basically , we spent months doing this with Mario .
You have an object , and we showed him how to grab the object .
Now , the theory of mirror neurons simply says that in your brains , exactly now , as you watch me doing this , you are activating exactly the same neurons as if you do the actions .
It looks like this is the leading edge in terms of rehabilitation .
But one day we found that Mario was not looking at our hand .
He was looking at us .
We were his mirror .
And the problem , as you might feel , is that we were down , we were depressed , we were looking at him as a problem , not as a son , not from a positive perspective .
And that day really changed our perspective .
We realized that we had to become a better mirror for Mario .
We restarted from our strengths , and at the same time we restarted from his strengths .
We stopped looking at him as a problem , and we started to look at him as an opportunity to improve .
And really , this was the change , and from our side , we said , &quot; What are our strengths that we really can bring to Mario ? &quot;
And we started from our passions .
We love to travel , we love music , we love to be in places like this , and we started to bring Mario with us just to show to him the best things that we can show to him .
This short video is from last week .
I am not saying — ( Applause ) — I am not saying it &apos;s a miracle . That &apos;s not the message , because we are just at the beginning of the path .
But we want to share what was the key learning , the key learning that Mario drove to us , and it is to consider what you have as a gift and not only what you miss , and to consider what you miss just as an opportunity .
And this is the message that we want to share with you .
Mario !
And this is why — ( Applause ) — And this is why we decided to share the best mirror in the world with him .
And we thank you so much , all of you .
FF : Thank you . RD : Thank you . Bye .
( Applause ) FF : Thank you . ( Applause )
I know what you &apos;re thinking .
You think I &apos;ve lost my way , and somebody &apos;s going to come on the stage in a minute and guide me gently back to my seat .
( Applause ) I get that all the time in Dubai .
&quot; Here on holiday are you , dear ? &quot;
( Laughter ) &quot; &quot; Come to visit the children ?
How long are you staying ? &quot; &quot; Well actually , I hope for a while longer yet .
I have been living and teaching in the Gulf for over 30 years .
( Applause ) And in that time , I have seen a lot of changes .
Now that statistic is quite shocking .
And I want to talk to you today about language loss and the globalization of English .
I want to tell you about my friend who was teaching English to adults in Abu Dhabi .
And one fine day , she decided to take them into the garden to teach them some nature vocabulary .
But it was she who ended up learning all the Arabic words for the local plants , as well as their uses — medicinal uses , cosmetics , cooking , herbal .
How did those students get all that knowledge ?
Of course , from their grandparents and even their great-grandparents .
It &apos;s not necessary to tell you how important it is to be able to communicate across generations .
But sadly , today , languages are dying at an unprecedented rate .
A language dies every 14 days .
Now , at the same time , English is the undisputed global language .
Could there be a connection ?
Well I don &apos;t know .
But I do know that I &apos;ve seen a lot of changes .
When I first came out to the Gulf , I came to Kuwait in the days when it was still a hardship post .
Actually , not that long ago .
That is a little bit too early .
But nevertheless , I was recruited by the British Council , along with about 25 other teachers .
And we were the first non-Muslims to teach in the state schools there in Kuwait .
We were brought to teach English because the government wanted to modernize the country and to empower the citizens through education .
And of course , the U.K. benefited from some of that lovely oil wealth .
Okay .
Now this is the major change that I &apos;ve seen — how teaching English has morphed from being a mutually beneficial practice to becoming a massive international business that it is today .
No longer just a foreign language on the school curriculum , and no longer the sole domain of mother England , it has become a bandwagon for every English-speaking nation on earth .
And why not ?
After all , the best education — according to the latest World University Rankings — is to be found in the universities of the U.K. and the U.S.
So everybody wants to have an English education , naturally .
But if you &apos;re not a native speaker , you have to pass a test .
Now can it be right to reject a student on linguistic ability alone ?
Perhaps you have a computer scientist who &apos;s a genius .
Would he need the same language as a lawyer , for example ?
Well , I don &apos;t think so .
We English teachers reject them all the time .
We put a stop sign , and we stop them in their tracks .
They can &apos;t pursue their dream any longer , &apos; til they get English .
Now let me put it this way : if I met a monolingual Dutch speaker who had the cure for cancer , would I stop him from entering my British University ?
I don &apos;t think so .
But indeed , that is exactly what we do .
We English teachers are the gatekeepers .
And you have to satisfy us first that your English is good enough .
Now it can be dangerous to give too much power to a narrow segment of society .
Maybe the barrier would be too universal .
Okay .
&quot; &quot; But , &quot; &quot; I hear you say , &quot; &quot; what about the research ?
It &apos;s all in English . &quot; &quot; So the books are in English , the journals are done in English , but that is a self-fulfilling prophecy .
It feeds the English requirement .
And so it goes on .
I ask you , what happened to translation ?
If you think about the Islamic Golden Age , there was lots of translation then .
They translated from Latin and Greek into Arabic , into Persian , and then it was translated on into the Germanic languages of Europe and the Romance languages .
And so light shone upon the Dark Ages of Europe .
Now don &apos;t get me wrong ; I am not against teaching English , all you English teachers out there .
I love it that we have a global language .
We need one today more than ever .
But I am against using it as a barrier .
Do we really want to end up with 600 languages and the main one being English , or Chinese ?
We need more than that . Where do we draw the line ?
This system equates intelligence with a knowledge of English , which is quite arbitrary .
( Applause ) And I want to remind you that the giants upon whose shoulders today &apos;s intelligentsia stand did not have to have English , they didn &apos;t have to pass an English test .
Case in point , Einstein .
He , by the way , was considered remedial at school because he was , in fact , dyslexic .
But fortunately for the world , he did not have to pass an English test .
Because they didn &apos;t start until 1964 with TOEFL , the American test of English .
Now it &apos;s exploded .
There are lots and lots of tests of English .
And millions and millions of students take these tests every year .
Now you might think , you and me , &quot; Those fees aren &apos;t bad , they &apos;re okay , &quot; but they are prohibitive to so many millions of poor people .
So immediately , we &apos;re rejecting them .
( Applause ) It brings to mind a headline I saw recently : &quot; Education : The Great Divide . &quot;
Now I get it , I understand why people would want to focus on English .
They want to give their children the best chance in life .
And to do that , they need a Western education .
Because , of course , the best jobs go to people out of the Western Universities , that I put on earlier .
It &apos;s a circular thing .
Okay .
Let me tell you a story about two scientists , two English scientists .
They were doing an experiment to do with genetics and the forelimbs and the hind limbs of animals .
But they couldn &apos;t get the results they wanted .
They really didn &apos;t know what to do , until along came a German scientist who realized that they were using two words for forelimb and hind limb , whereas genetics does not differentiate and neither does German .
So bingo , problem solved .
If you can &apos;t think a thought , you are stuck .
But if another language can think that thought , then , by cooperating , we can achieve and learn so much more .
My daughter came to England from Kuwait .
She had studied science and mathematics in Arabic .
It &apos;s an Arabic-medium school .
She had to translate it into English at her grammar school .
And she was the best in the class at those subjects .
Which tells us that when students come to us from abroad , we may not be giving them enough credit for what they know , and they know it in their own language .
When a language dies , we don &apos;t know what we lose with that language .
This is — I don &apos;t know if you saw it on CNN recently — they gave the Heroes Award to a young Kenyan shepherd boy who couldn &apos;t study at night in his village , like all the village children , because the kerosene lamp , it had smoke and it damaged his eyes .
And anyway , there was never enough kerosene , because what does a dollar a day buy for you ?
So he invented a cost-free solar lamp .
And now the children in his village get the same grades at school as the children who have electricity at home .
( Applause ) When he received his award , he said these lovely words : &quot; &quot; The children can lead Africa from what it is today , a dark continent , to a light continent . &quot; &quot; A simple idea , but it could have such far-reaching consequences .
People who have no light , whether it &apos;s physical or metaphorical , cannot pass our exams , and we can never know what they know .
Let us not keep them and ourselves in the dark .
Let us celebrate diversity .
Mind your language .
Use it to spread great ideas .
( Applause ) Thank you very much . ( Applause )
I &apos;m speaking about compassion from an Islamic point of view , and perhaps my faith is not very well thought of as being one that is grounded in compassion .
The truth of the matter is otherwise .
Our holy book , the Koran , consists of 114 chapters , and each chapter begins with what we call the basmala , the saying of &quot; &quot; In the name of God , the all compassionate , the all merciful , &quot; &quot; or , as Sir Richard Burton — not the Richard Burton who was married to Elizabeth Taylor , but the Sir Richard Burton who lived a century before that and who was a worldwide traveler and translator of many works of literature — translates it . &quot; &quot; In the name of God , the compassionating , the compassionate . &quot; &quot; And in a saying of the Koran , which to Muslims is God speaking to humanity , God says to his prophet Muhammad —
whom we believe to be the last of a series of prophets , beginning with Adam , including Noah , including Moses , including Abraham , including Jesus Christ , and ending with Muhammad — that , &quot; &quot; We have not sent you , O Muhammad , except as a &apos; rahmah , &apos; except as a source of compassion to humanity . &quot; &quot; For us human beings , and certainly for us as Muslims , whose mission , and whose purpose in following the path of the prophet is to make ourselves as much like the prophet .
And the prophet , in one of his sayings , said , &quot; Adorn yourselves with the attributes of God . &quot;
And because God Himself said that the primary attribute of his is compassion — in fact , the Koran says that &quot; &quot; God decreed upon himself compassion , &quot; &quot; or , &quot; &quot; reigned himself in by compassion &quot; &quot; — therefore , our objective and our mission must be to be sources of compassion , activators of compassion , actors of compassion and speakers of compassion and doers of compassion .
That is all well and good , but where do we go wrong , and what is the source of the lack of compassion in the world ?
For the answer to this , we turn to our spiritual path .
In every religious tradition , there is the outer path and the inner path , or the exoteric path and the esoteric path .
The esoteric path of Islam is more popularly known as Sufism , or &quot; &quot; tasawwuf &quot; &quot; in Arabic .
And these doctors or these masters , these spiritual masters of the Sufi tradition , refer to teachings and examples of our prophet that teach us where the source of our problems lies .
In one of the battles that the prophet waged , he told his followers , &quot; &quot; We are returning from the lesser war to the greater war , to the greater battle . &quot; &quot; And they said , &quot; &quot; Messenger of God , we are battle-weary .
How can we go to a greater battle ? &quot; &quot; He said , &quot; &quot; That is the battle of the self , the battle of the ego . &quot; &quot; The sources of human problems have to do with egotism , &quot; &quot; I. &quot; &quot; The famous Sufi master Rumi , who is very well known to most of you , has a story in which he talks of a man who goes to the house of a friend , and he knocks on the door , and a voice answers , &quot; &quot; Who &apos;s there ? &quot; &quot; &quot; It &apos;s me , &quot; or , more grammatically correctly , &quot; It is I , &quot; as we might say in English .
The voice says , &quot; &quot; Go away . &quot; &quot; After many years of training , of disciplining , of search and struggle , he comes back .
With much greater humility , he knocks again on the door .
The voice asks , &quot; &quot; Who is there ? &quot; &quot; He said , &quot; &quot; It is you , O heartbreaker . &quot; &quot; The door swings open , and the voice says , &quot; Come in , for there is no room in this house for two I &apos;s , &quot; — two capital I &apos;s , not these eyes — &quot; &quot; for two egos . &quot; &quot; And Rumi &apos;s stories are metaphors for the spiritual path .
In the presence of God , there is no room for more than one &quot; &quot; I , &quot; &quot; and that is the &quot; &quot; I &quot; &quot; of divinity .
In a teaching — called a &quot; &quot; hadith qudsi &quot; &quot; in our tradition — God says that , &quot; &quot; My servant , &quot; &quot; or &quot; &quot; My creature , my human creature , does not approach me by anything that is dearer to me than what I have asked them to do . &quot; &quot; And those of you who are employers know exactly what I mean .
You want your employees to do what you ask them to do , and if they &apos;ve done that , then they can do extra .
But don &apos;t ignore what you &apos;ve asked them to do .
&quot; &quot; And , &quot; &quot; God says , &quot; &quot; my servant continues to get nearer to me , by doing more of what I &apos;ve asked them to do &quot; &quot; — extra credit , we might call it — &quot; &quot; until I love him or love her .
And when I love my servant , &quot; &quot; God says , &quot; &quot; I become the eyes by which he or she sees , the ears by which he or she listens , the hand by which he or she grasps , and the foot by which he or she walks , and the heart by which he or she understands . &quot; &quot; It is this merging of our self with divinity that is the lesson and purpose of our spiritual path and all of our faith traditions .
Muslims regard Jesus as the master of Sufism , the greatest prophet and messenger who came to emphasize the spiritual path .
When he says , &quot; &quot; I am the spirit , and I am the way , &quot; &quot; and when the prophet Muhammad said , &quot; &quot; Whoever has seen me has seen God , &quot; &quot; it is because they became so much an instrument of God , they became part of God &apos;s team — so that God &apos;s will was manifest through them , and they were not acting from their own selves and their own egos .
Compassion on earth is given , it is in us .
All we have to do is to get our egos out of the way , get our egotism out of the way .
I &apos;m sure , probably all of you here , or certainly the very vast majority of you , have had what you might call a spiritual experience , a moment in your lives when , for a few seconds , a minute perhaps , the boundaries of your ego dissolved .
And at that minute , you felt at one with the universe — one with that jug of water , one with every human being , one with the Creator — and you felt you were in the presence of power , of awe , of the deepest love , the deepest sense of compassion and mercy that you have ever experienced in your lives .
That is a moment which is a gift of God to us — a gift when , for a moment , he lifts that boundary which makes us insist on &quot; &quot; I , I , I , me , me , me , &quot; &quot; and instead , like the person in Rumi &apos;s story , we say , &quot; &quot; Oh , this is all you .
This is all you . And this is all us .
And us , and I , and us are all part of you .
O , Creator ! O , the Objective ! The source of our being and the end of our journey , you are also the breaker of our hearts .
You are the one whom we should all be towards , for whose purpose we live , and for whose purpose we shall die , and for whose purpose we shall be resurrected again to account to God to what extent we have been compassionate beings . &quot; &quot; Our message today , and our purpose today , and those of you who are here today , and the purpose of this charter of compassion , is to remind .
For the Koran always urges us to remember , to remind each other , because the knowledge of truth is within every human being .
We know it all .
We have access to it all .
Jung may have called it &quot; &quot; the subconscious . &quot; &quot; Through our subconscious , in your dreams — the Koran calls our state of sleep &quot; &quot; the lesser death , &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; the temporary death &quot; &quot; — in our state of sleep we have dreams , we have visions , we travel even outside of our bodies , for many of us , and we see wonderful things .
We travel beyond the limitations of space as we know it , and beyond the limitations of time as we know it .
But all this is for us to glorify the name of the creator whose primary name is the compassionating , the compassionate .
God , Bokh , whatever name you want to call him with , Allah , Ram , Om , whatever the name might be through which you name or access the presence of divinity , it is the locus of absolute being , absolute love and mercy and compassion , and absolute knowledge and wisdom , what Hindus call &quot; &quot; satchidananda . &quot; &quot; The language differs , but the objective is the same .
Rumi has another story about three men , a Turk , an Arab and — and I forget the third person , but for my sake , it could be a Malay .
One is asking for angur — one is , say , an Englishman — one is asking for eneb , and one is asking for grapes .
And they have a fight and an argument because — &quot; &quot; I want grapes . &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; I want eneb . &quot; &quot; I want angur . &quot; &quot; — not knowing that the word that they &apos;re using refers to the same reality in different languages .
There &apos;s only one absolute reality by definition , one absolute being by definition , because absolute is , by definition , single , and absolute and singular .
There &apos;s this absolute concentration of being , the absolute concentration of consciousness , awareness , an absolute locus of compassion and love that defines the primary attributes of divinity .
And these should also be the primary attributes of what it means to be human .
For what defines humanity , perhaps biologically , is our physiology , but God defines humanity by our spirituality , by our nature .
And the Koran says , He speaks to the angels and says , &quot; &quot; When I have finished the formation of Adam from clay , and breathed into him of my spirit , then , fall in prostration to him . &quot; &quot; The angels prostrate , not before the human body , but before the human soul .
Why ? Because the soul , the human soul , embodies a piece of the divine breath , a piece of the divine soul .
This is also expressed in biblical vocabulary when we are taught that we were created in the divine image .
What is the imagery of God ?
The imagery of God is absolute being , absolute awareness and knowledge and wisdom and absolute compassion and love .
And therefore , for us to be human — in the greatest sense of what it means to be human , in the most joyful sense of what it means to be human — means that we too have to be proper stewards of the breath of divinity within us , and seek to perfect within ourselves the attribute of being , of being alive , of beingness ; the attribute of wisdom , of consciousness , of awareness ; and the attribute of being compassionate and loving beings .
This is what I understand from my faith tradition , and this is what I understand from my studies of other faith traditions , and this is the common platform on which we must all stand , and when we stand on this platform as such , I am convinced that we can make a wonderful world .
And I believe , personally , that we &apos;re on the verge and that , with the presence and help of people like you here , we can bring about the prophecy of Isaiah .
For he foretold of a period when people shall transform their swords into plowshares and will not learn war or make war anymore .
We have reached a stage in human history that we have no option : we must , we must lower our egos , control our egos — whether it is individual ego , personal ego , family ego , national ego — and let all be for the glorification of the one .
Thank you , and God bless you .
( Applause )
I want to talk to you about something kind of big .
We &apos;ll start here .
65 million years ago the dinosaurs had a bad day .
( Laughter ) A chunk of rock six miles across , moving something like 50 times the speed of a rifle bullet , slammed into the Earth .
It released its energy all at once , and it was an explosion that was mind-numbing .
If you took every nuclear weapon ever built at the height of the Cold War , lumped them together and blew them up at the same time , that would be one one-millionth of the energy released at that moment .
The dinosaurs had a really bad day .
Okay ?
Now , a six-mile-wide rock is very large .
We all live here in Boulder .
If you look out your window and you can see Long &apos;s Peak , you &apos;re probably familiar with it .
Now , scoop up Long &apos;s Peak , and put it out in space .
Take Meeker , Mt . Meeker . Lump that in there , and put that in space as well , and Mt . Everest , and K2 , and the Indian peaks .
Then you &apos;re starting to get an idea of how much rock we &apos;re talking about , okay ?
We know it was that big because of the impact it had and the crater it left .
It hit in what we now know as Yucatan , the Gulf of Mexico .
You can see here , there &apos;s the Yucatan Peninsula , if you recognize Cozumel off the east coast there .
Here is how big of a crater was left .
It was huge . To give you a sense of the scale , okay , there you go . The scale here is 50 miles on top , a hundred kilometers on the bottom . This thing was 300 kilometers across — 200 miles — an enormous crater that excavated out vast amounts of earth that splashed around the globe and set fires all over the planet , threw up enough dust to block out the sun .
It wiped out 75 percent of all species on Earth .
Now , not all asteroids are that big .
Some of them are smaller .
Here is one that came in over the United States in October of 1992 .
It came in on a Friday night .
Why is that important ?
Because back then , video cameras were just starting to become popular , and people would bring them , parents would bring them , to their kids &apos; football games to film their kids play football . And since this came in on a Friday , they were able to get this great footage of this thing breaking up as it came in over West Virgina , Maryland , Pennsylvania and New Jersey until it did that to a car in New York .
( Laughter ) Now , this is not a 200-mile-wide crater , but then again you can see the rock which is sitting right here , about the size of a football , that hit that car and did that damage .
Now this thing was probably about the size of a school bus when it first came in .
It broke up through atmospheric pressure , it crumbled , and then the pieces fell apart and did some damage .
Now , you wouldn &apos;t want that falling on your foot or your head , because it would do that to it .
That would be bad .
But it won &apos;t wipe out , you know , all life on Earth , so that &apos;s fine . But it turns out , you don &apos;t need something six miles across to do a lot of damage .
There is a median point between tiny rock and gigantic rock , and in fact , if any of you have ever been to near Winslow , Arizona , there is a crater in the desert there that is so iconic that it is actually called Meteor Crater .
To give you a sense of scale , this is about a mile wide .
If you look up at the top , that &apos;s a parking lot , and those are recreational vehicles right there .
So it &apos;s about a mile across , 600 feet deep .
The object that formed this was probably about 30 to 50 yards across , so roughly the size of Mackey Auditorium here .
It came in at speeds that were tremendous , slammed into the ground , blew up , and exploded with the energy of roughly a 20-megaton nuclear bomb — a very hefty bomb .
This was 50,000 years ago , so it may have wiped out a few buffalo or antelope , or something like that out in the desert , but it probably would not have caused global devastation .
It turns out that these things don &apos;t have to hit the ground to do a lot of damage .
Now , in 1908 , over Siberia , near the Tunguska region — for those of you who are Dan Aykroyd fans and saw &quot; &quot; Ghostbusters , &quot; &quot; when he talked about the greatest cross-dimensional rift since the Siberia blast of 1909 , where he got the date wrong , but that &apos;s okay . ( Laughter ) It was 1908 . That &apos;s fine . I can live with that . ( Laughter )
Another rock came into the Earth &apos;s atmosphere and this one blew up above the ground , several miles up above the surface of the Earth .
The heat from the explosion set fire to the forest below it , and then the shock wave came down and knocked down trees for hundreds of square miles , okay ?
This did a huge amount of damage .
And again , this was a rock probably roughly the size of this auditorium that we &apos;re sitting in .
In Meteor Crater it was made of metal , and metal is much tougher , so it made it to the ground .
The one over Tunguska was probably made of rock , and that &apos;s much more crumbly , so it blew up in the air . Either way , these are tremendous explosions , 20 megatons .
Now , when these things blow up , they &apos;re not going to do global ecological damage .
They &apos;re not going to do something like the dinosaur-killer did .
They &apos;re just not big enough .
But they will do global economic damage , because they don &apos;t have to hit , necessarily , to do this kind of damage .
They don &apos;t have to do global devastation .
If one of these things were to hit pretty much anywhere , it would cause a panic .
But if it came over a city , an important city — not that any city is more important than others , but some of them we depend on them more on the global economic basis — that could do a huge amount of damage to us as a civilization .
So , now that I &apos;ve scared the crap out of you ...
( Laughter ) what can we do about this ? All right ?
This is a potential threat .
Let me note that we have not had a giant impact like the dinosaur-killer for 65 million years . They &apos;re very rare .
The smaller ones happen more often , but probably on the order of a millennium , every few centuries or every few thousand years , but it &apos;s still something to be aware of .
Well , what do we do about them ?
The first thing we have to do is find them .
This is an image of an asteroid that passed us in 2009 .
It &apos;s right here .
But you can see that it &apos;s extremely faint .
I don &apos;t even know if you can see that in the back row . These are just stars .
This is a rock that was about 30 yards across , so roughly the size of the ones that blew up over Tunguska and hit Arizona 50,000 years ago .
These things are faint .
They &apos;re hard to see , and the sky is really big .
We have to find these things first .
Well the good news is , we &apos;re looking for them .
NASA has devoted money to this .
The National Science Foundation , other countries are very interested in doing this .
We &apos;re building telescopes that are looking for the threat . That &apos;s a great first step , but what &apos;s the second step ? The second step is that we see one heading toward us , we have to stop it . What do we do ?
You &apos;ve probably heard about the asteroid Apophis . If you haven &apos;t yet , you will .
If you &apos;ve heard about the Mayan 2012 apocalypse , you &apos;re going to hear about Apophis , because you &apos;re keyed in to all the doomsday networks anyway .
Apophis is an asteroid that was discovered in 2004 .
It &apos;s roughly 250 yards across , so it &apos;s pretty big — big size , you know , bigger than a football stadium — and it &apos;s going to pass by the Earth in April of 2029 .
And it &apos;s going to pass us so close that it &apos;s actually going to come underneath our weather satellites .
The Earth &apos;s gravity is going to bend the orbit of this thing so much that if it &apos;s just right , if it passes through this region of space , this kidney bean-shaped region called the keyhole , the Earth &apos;s gravity will bend it just enough that seven years later on April 13 , which is a Friday , I &apos;ll note , in the year 2036 ... ( Laughter ) — you can &apos;t plan that kind of stuff — Apophis is going to hit us . And it &apos;s 250 meters across , so it would do unbelievable damage .
Now the good news is that the odds of it actually passing through this keyhole and hitting us next go-around are one in a million , roughly — very , very low odds , so I personally am not lying awake at night worrying about this at all .
I don &apos;t think Apophis is a problem .
In fact , Apophis is a blessing in disguise , because it woke us up to the dangers of these things .
This thing was discovered just a few years ago and could hit us a few years from now .
It won &apos;t , but it gives us a chance to study these kinds of asteroids . We didn &apos;t really necessarily understand these keyholes , and now we do and it turns out that &apos;s really important , because how do you stop an asteroid like this ?
Well , let me ask you , what happens if you &apos;re standing in the middle of the road and a car &apos;s headed for you ? What do you do ? You do this .
Right ? Move . The car goes past you .
But we can &apos;t move the Earth , at least not easily , but we can move a small asteroid .
And it turns out , we &apos;ve even done it .
In the year 2005 , NASA launched a probe called Deep Impact , which slammed into — slammed a piece of itself into the nucleus of a comet .
Comets are very much like asteroids .
The purpose wasn &apos;t to push it out of the way .
The purpose was to make a crater to excavate the material and see what was underneath the surface of this comet , which we learned quite a bit about .
We did move the comet a little tiny bit , not very much , but that wasn &apos;t the point .
However , think about this .
This thing is orbiting the sun at 10 miles per second , 20 miles per second .
We shot a space probe at it and hit it . Okay ?
Imagine how hard that must be , and we did it .
That means we can do it again .
If we need , if we see an asteroid that &apos;s coming toward us , and it &apos;s headed right for us , and we have two years to go , boom ! We hit it .
You can try to — you know , if you watch the movies , you might think about , why don &apos;t we use a nuclear weapon ?
It &apos;s like , well , you can try that , but the problem is timing .
You shoot a nuclear weapon at this thing , you have to blow it up within a few milliseconds of tolerance or else you &apos;ll just miss it .
And there are a lot of other problems with that . It &apos;s very hard to do .
But just hitting something ? That &apos;s pretty easy .
I think even NASA can do that , and they proved that they can . ( Laughter ) The problem is , what happens if you hit this asteroid , you &apos;ve changed the orbit , you measure the orbit and then you find out , oh , yeah , we just pushed it into a keyhole , and now it &apos;s going to hit us in three years .
Well , my opinion is , fine . Okay ?
It &apos;s not hitting us in six months . That &apos;s good .
Now we have three years to do something else .
And you can hit it again . That &apos;s kind of ham-fisted . You might just push it into a third keyhole or whatever , so you don &apos;t do that .
And this is the part , it &apos;s the part I just love .
( Laughter ) After the big macho &quot; &quot; Rrrrrrr BAM ! We &apos;re gonna hit this thing in the face , &quot; &quot; then we bring in the velvet gloves . ( Laughter )
There &apos;s a group of scientists and engineers and astronauts and they call themselves The B612 Foundation . For those of you who &apos;ve read &quot; &quot; The Little Prince , &quot; &quot; you understand that reference , I hope . The little prince who lived on an asteroid , it was called B612 .
These are smart guys — men and women — astronauts , like I said , engineers .
Rusty Schweickart , who was an Apollo 9 astronaut , is on this . Dan Durda , my friend who made this image , works here at Southwest Research Institute in Boulder , on Walnut Street . He created this image for this , and he &apos;s actually one of the astronomers who works for them . If we see an asteroid that &apos;s going to hit the Earth and we have enough time , we can hit it to move it into a better orbit . But then what we do is we launch a probe that has to weigh a ton or two .
It doesn &apos;t have to be huge — couple of tons , not that big — and you park it near the asteroid .
You don &apos;t land on it , because these things are tumbling end over end . It &apos;s very hard to land on them .
Instead you get near it .
The gravity of the asteroid pulls on the probe , and the probe has a couple of tons of mass .
It has a little tiny bit of gravity , but it &apos;s enough that it can pull the asteroid , and you have your rockets set up , so you can — oh , you can barely see it here , but there &apos;s rocket plumes — and you basically , these guys are connected by their own gravity , and if you move the probe very slowly , very , very gently , you can very easily finesse that rock into a safe orbit .
You can even put in orbit around the Earth where we could mine it , although that &apos;s a whole other thing . I won &apos;t go into that .
( Laughter ) But we &apos;d be rich ! ( Laughter )
So think about this , right ?
There are these giant rocks flying out there , and they &apos;re hitting us , and they &apos;re doing damage to us , but we &apos;ve figured out how to do this , and all the pieces are in place to do this .
We have astronomers in place with telescopes looking for them . We have smart people , very , very smart people , who are concerned about this and figuring out how to fix the problem , and we have the technology to do this .
This probe actually can &apos;t use chemical rockets .
Chemical rockets provide too much thrust , too much push . The probe would just shoot away .
We invented something called an ion drive , which is a very , very , very low-thrust engine .
It generates the force a piece of paper would have on your hand , incredibly light , but it can run for months and years , providing that very gentle push .
If anybody here is a fan of the original &quot; &quot; Star Trek , &quot; &quot; they ran across an alien ship that had an ion drive , and Spock said , &quot; &quot; They &apos;re very technically sophisticated .
They &apos;re a hundred years ahead of us with this drive . &quot; &quot; Yeah , we have an ion drive now . ( Laughter ) We don &apos;t have the Enterprise , but we &apos;ve got an ion drive now .
( Applause ) Spock .
( Laughter ) So ...
that &apos;s the difference , that &apos;s the difference between us and the dinosaurs .
This happened to them .
It doesn &apos;t have to happen to us .
The difference between the dinosaurs and us is that we have a space program and we can vote , and so we can change our future .
( Laughter ) We have the ability to change our future .
65 million years from now , we don &apos;t have to have our bones collecting dust in a museum .
Thank you very much .
( Applause )
In the great 1980s movie &quot; &quot; The Blues Brothers , &quot; &quot; there &apos;s a scene where John Belushi goes to visit Dan Aykroyd in his apartment in Chicago for the very first time .
It &apos;s a cramped , tiny space and it &apos;s just three feet away from the train tracks .
As John sits on Dan &apos;s bed , a train goes rushing by , rattling everything in the room .
John asks , &quot; &quot; How often does that train go by ? &quot; &quot; Dan replies , &quot; &quot; So often , you won &apos;t even notice it . &quot; &quot; And then , something falls off the wall .
We all know what he &apos;s talking about .
As human beings , we get used to everyday things really fast .
As a product designer , it &apos;s my job to see those everyday things , to feel them , and try to improve upon them .
For example , see this piece of fruit ?
See this little sticker ?
That sticker wasn &apos;t there when I was a kid .
But somewhere as the years passed , someone had the bright idea to put that sticker on the fruit .
Why ?
So it could be easier for us to check out at the grocery counter .
Well that &apos;s great , we can get in and out of the store quickly .
But now , there &apos;s a new problem .
When we get home and we &apos;re hungry and we see this ripe , juicy piece of fruit on the counter , we just want to pick it up and eat it .
Except now , we have to look for this little sticker .
And dig at it with our nails , damaging the flesh .
Then rolling up that sticker — you know what I mean .
And then trying to flick it off your fingers .
( Applause ) It &apos;s not fun , not at all .
But something interesting happened .
You felt upset .
You just wanted to dive in .
By the 10th time , you started to become less upset and you just started peeling the label off .
By the 100th time , at least for me , I became numb to it .
I simply picked up the piece of fruit , dug at it with my nails , tried to flick it off , and then wondered , &quot; Was there another sticker ? &quot;
So why is that ?
Why do we get used to everyday things ?
Well as human beings , we have limited brain power .
And so our brains encode the everyday things we do into habits so we can free up space to learn new things .
It &apos;s a process called habituation and it &apos;s one of the most basic ways , as humans , we learn .
Now , habituation isn &apos;t always bad .
Remember learning to drive ?
I sure do .
Your hands clenched at 10 and 2 on the wheel , looking at every single object out there — the cars , the lights , the pedestrians .
It &apos;s a nerve-wracking experience .
So much so , that I couldn &apos;t even talk to anyone else in the car and I couldn &apos;t even listen to music .
But then something interesting happened .
As the weeks went by , driving became easier and easier .
You habituated it .
It started to become fun and second nature .
And then , you could talk to your friends again and listen to music .
So there &apos;s a good reason why our brains habituate things .
If we didn &apos;t , we &apos;d notice every little detail , all the time .
It would be exhausting , and we &apos;d have no time to learn about new things .
But sometimes , habituation isn &apos;t good .
If it stops us from noticing the problems that are around us , well , that &apos;s bad .
And if it stops us from noticing and fixing those problems , well , then that &apos;s really bad .
Comedians know all about this .
Jerry Seinfeld &apos;s entire career was built on noticing those little details , those idiotic things we do every day that we don &apos;t even remember .
He tells us about the time he visited his friends and he just wanted to take a comfortable shower .
He &apos;d reach out and grab the handle and turn it slightly one way , and it was 100 degrees too hot .
And then he &apos;d turn it the other way , and it was 100 degrees too cold .
He just wanted a comfortable shower .
Now , we &apos;ve all been there , we just don &apos;t remember it .
But Jerry did , and that &apos;s a comedian &apos;s job .
But designers , innovators and entrepreneurs , it &apos;s our job to not just notice those things , but to go one step further and try to fix them .
See this , this person , this is Mary Anderson .
In 1902 in New York City , she was visiting .
It was a cold , wet , snowy day and she was warm inside a streetcar .
As she was going to her destination , she noticed the driver opening the window to clean off the excess snow so he could drive safely .
When he opened the window , though , he let all this cold , wet air inside , making all the passengers miserable .
Now probably , most of those passengers just thought , &quot; &quot; It &apos;s a fact of life , he &apos;s got to open the window to clean it .
That &apos;s just how it is . &quot; &quot; But Mary didn &apos;t .
Mary thought , &quot; &quot; What if the diver could actually clean the windshield from the inside so that he could stay safe and drive and the passengers could actually stay warm ? &quot; &quot; So she picked up her sketchbook right then and there , and began drawing what would become the world &apos;s first windshield wiper .
Now as a product designer , I try to learn from people like Mary to try to see the world the way it really is , not the way we think it is .
Why ?
Because it &apos;s easy to solve a problem that almost everyone sees .
But it &apos;s hard to solve a problem that almost no one sees .
Now some people think you &apos;re born with this ability or you &apos;re not , as if Mary Anderson was hardwired at birth to see the world more clearly .
That wasn &apos;t the case for me .
I had to work at it .
During my years at Apple , Steve Jobs challenged us to come into work every day , to see our products through the eyes of the customer , the new customer , the one that has fears and possible frustrations and hopeful exhilaration that their new technology product could work straightaway for them .
He called it staying beginners , and wanted to make sure that we focused on those tiny little details to make them faster , easier and seamless for the new customers .
So I remember this clearly in the very earliest days of the iPod .
See , back in the &apos; 90s , being a gadget freak like I am , I would rush out to the store for the very , very latest gadget .
I &apos;d take all the time to get to the store , I &apos;d check out , I &apos;d come back home , I &apos;d start to unbox it .
And then , there was another little sticker : the one that said , &quot; &quot; Charge before use . &quot; &quot; What !
I can &apos;t believe it !
I just spent all this time buying this product and now I have to charge before use .
I have to wait what felt like an eternity to use that coveted new toy .
It was crazy .
But you know what ?
Almost every product back then did that .
When it had batteries in it , you had to charge it before you used it .
Well , Steve noticed that and he said , &quot; We &apos;re not going to let that happen to our product . &quot;
So what did we do ?
Typically , when you have a product that has a hard drive in it , you run it for about 30 minutes in the factory to make sure that hard drive &apos;s going to be working years later for the customer after they pull it out of the box .
What did we do instead ?
We ran that product for over two hours .
Why ?
Well , first off , we could make a higher quality product , be easy to test , and make sure it was great for the customer .
But most importantly , the battery came fully charged right out of the box , ready to use .
So that customer , with all that exhilaration , could just start using the product .
It was great , and it worked .
People liked it .
Today , almost every product that you get that &apos;s battery powered comes out of the box fully charged , even if it doesn &apos;t have a hard drive .
But back then , we noticed that detail and we fixed it , and now everyone else does that as well .
No more , &quot; &quot; Charge before use . &quot; &quot; So why am I telling you this ?
Well , it &apos;s seeing the invisible problem , not just the obvious problem , that &apos;s important , not just for product design , but for everything we do .
You see , there are invisible problems all around us , ones we can solve .
But first we need to see them , to feel them .
So , I &apos;m hesitant to give you any tips about neuroscience or psychology .
There &apos;s far too many experienced people in the TED community who would know much more about that than I ever will .
But let me leave you with a few tips that I do , that we all can do , to fight habituation .
My first tip is to look broader .
You see , when you &apos;re tackling a problem , sometimes , there are a lot of steps that lead up to that problem .
And sometimes , a lot of steps after it .
If you can take a step back and look broader , maybe you can change some of those boxes before the problem .
Maybe you can combine them .
Maybe you can remove them altogether to make that better .
Take thermostats , for instance .
In the 1900s when they first came out , they were really simple to use .
You could turn them up or turn them down .
People understood them .
But in the 1970s , the energy crisis struck , and customers started thinking about how to save energy .
So what happened ?
Thermostat designers decided to add a new step .
Instead of just turning up and down , you now had to program it .
So you could tell it the temperature you wanted at a certain time .
Now that seemed great .
Every thermostat had started adding that feature .
But it turned out that no one saved any energy .
Now , why is that ?
Well , people couldn &apos;t predict the future .
They just didn &apos;t know how their weeks would change season to season , year to year .
So no one was saving energy , and what happened ?
Thermostat designers went back to the drawing board and they focused on that programming step .
They made better U.I.s , they made better documentation .
But still , years later , people were not saving any energy because they just couldn &apos;t predict the future .
So what did we do ?
We put a machine-learning algorithm in instead of the programming that would simply watch when you turned it up and down , when you liked a certain temperature when you got up , or when you went away .
And you know what ?
It worked .
People are saving energy without any programming .
So , it doesn &apos;t matter what you &apos;re doing .
If you take a step back and look at all the boxes , maybe there &apos;s a way to remove one or combine them so that you can make that process much simpler .
So that &apos;s my first tip : look broader .
For my second tip , it &apos;s to look closer .
One of my greatest teachers was my grandfather .
He taught me all about the world .
He taught me how things were built and how they were repaired , the tools and techniques necessary to make a successful project .
I remember one story he told me about screws , and about how you need to have the right screw for the right job .
There are many different screws : wood screws , metal screws , anchors , concrete screws , the list went on and on .
Our job is to make products that are easy to install for all of our customs themselves without professionals .
So what did we do ?
I remembered that story that my grandfather told me , and so we thought , &quot; &quot; How many different screws can we put in the box ?
Was it going to be two , three , four , five ?
Because there &apos;s so many different wall types . &quot; &quot; So we thought about it , we optimized it , and we came up with three different screws to put in the box .
We thought that was going to solve the problem .
But it turned out , it didn &apos;t .
So we shipped the product , and people weren &apos;t having a great experience .
So what did we do ?
We went back to the drawing board just instantly after we figured out we didn &apos;t get it right .
And we designed a special screw , a custom screw , much to the chagrin of our investors .
They were like , &quot; &quot; Why are you spending so much time on a little screw ?
Get out there and sell more ! &quot; &quot; And we said , &quot; &quot; We will sell more if we get this right . &quot; &quot; And it turned out , we did .
With that custom little screw , there was just one screw in the box , that was easy to mount and put on the wall .
So if we focus on those tiny details , the ones we may not see and we look at them as we say , &quot; &quot; Are those important or is that the way we &apos;ve always done it ?
Maybe there &apos;s a way to get rid of those . &quot; &quot; So my last piece of advice is to think younger .
Every day , I &apos;m confronted with interesting questions from my three young kids .
They come up with questions like , &quot; Why can &apos;t cars fly around traffic ? &quot;
Or , &quot; &quot; Why don &apos;t my shoelaces have Velcro instead ? &quot; &quot; Sometimes , those questions are smart .
My son came to me the other day and I asked him , &quot; Go run out to the mailbox and check it . &quot;
He looked at me , puzzled , and said , &quot; &quot; Why doesn &apos;t the mailbox just check itself and tell us when it has mail ? &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) I was like , &quot; &quot; That &apos;s a pretty good question . &quot; &quot; So , they can ask tons of questions and sometimes we find out we just don &apos;t have the right answers .
We say , &quot; &quot; Son , that &apos;s just the way the world works . &quot; &quot; So the more we &apos;re exposed to something , the more we get used to it .
But kids haven &apos;t been around long enough to get used to those things .
And so when they run into problems , they immediately try to solve them , and sometimes they find a better way , and that way really is better .
So my advice that we take to heart is to have young people on your team , or people with young minds .
Because if you have those young minds , they cause everyone in the room to think younger .
Picasso once said , &quot; &quot; Every child is an artist .
The problem is when he or she grows up , is how to remain an artist . &quot; &quot; We all saw the world more clearly when we saw it for the first time , before a lifetime of habits got in the way .
Our challenge is to get back there , to feel that frustration , to see those little details , to look broader , look closer , and to think younger so we can stay beginners .
It &apos;s not easy .
It requires us pushing back against one of the most basic ways we make sense of the world .
But if we do , we could do some pretty amazing things .
For me , hopefully , that &apos;s better product design .
For you , that could mean something else , something powerful .
Our challenge is to wake up each day and say , &quot; How can I experience the world better ? &quot;
And if we do , maybe , just maybe , we can get rid of these dumb little stickers .
Thank you very much .
( Applause )
For about the five years after graduating from an upstanding liberal arts university , this was my day job .
( Laughter ) I was a self-employed living statue called the Eight-Foot Bride , and I love telling people I did this for a job , because everybody always wants to know , who are these freaks in real life . ( Laughter )
Hello .
I painted myself white one day , stood on a box , put a hat or a can at my feet , and when someone came by and dropped in money , I handed them a flower — and some intense eye contact .
( Laughter ) So I had the most profound encounters with people , especially lonely people who looked like they hadn &apos;t talked to anyone in weeks , and we would get this beautiful moment of prolonged eye contact being allowed in a city street , and we would sort of fall in love a little bit .
But it hurt , because it made me fear that I was somehow doing something un-joblike and unfair , shameful .
I had no idea how perfect a real education I was getting for the music business on this box .
And for the economists out there , you may be interested to know I actually made a pretty predictable income , which was shocking to me , given I had no regular customers , but pretty much 60 bucks on a Tuesday , 90 bucks on a Friday .
It was consistent .
I wrote the songs , and eventually we started making enough money that I could quit being a statue , and as we started touring , I really didn &apos;t want to lose this sense of direct connection with people , because I loved it .
So after all of our shows , we would sign autographs and hug fans and hang out and talk to people , and we made an art out of asking people to help us and join us , and I would track down local musicians and artists and they would set up outside of our shows , and they would pass the hat , and then they would come in and join us onstage , so we had this rotating smorgasbord of weird , random circus guests .
And then Twitter came along , and made things even more magic , because I could ask instantly for anything anywhere .
So I would need a piano to practice on , and an hour later I would be at a fan &apos;s house .
This is a library in Auckland .
I once tweeted , &quot; &quot; Where in Melbourne can I buy a neti pot ? &quot; &quot; And a nurse from a hospital drove one right at that moment to the cafe I was in , and I bought her a smoothie and we sat there talking about nursing and death .
And I love this kind of random closeness , which is lucky , because I do a lot of couchsurfing .
In mansions where everyone in my crew gets their own room but there &apos;s no wireless , and in punk squats , everyone on the floor in one room with no toilets but with wireless , clearly making it the better option .
( Laughter ) My crew once pulled our van up to a really poor Miami neighborhood and we found out that our couchsurfing host for the night was an 18-year-old girl , still living at home , and her family were all undocumented immigrants from Honduras .
And that night , her whole family took the couches and she slept together with her mom so that we could take their beds .
A couple of months later , I was in Manhattan , and I tweeted for a crash pad , and at midnight , I &apos;m on the Lower East Side , and it occurs to me I &apos;ve never actually done this alone .
( Laughter ) Is this how stupid people die ?
He &apos;s a financial blogger for Reuters , and they &apos;re pouring me a glass of red wine and offering me a bath , and I have had thousands of nights like that and like that .
I maintain couchsurfing and crowdsurfing are basically the same thing .
I once asked an opening band of mine if they wanted to go out into the crowd and pass the hat to get some extra money , something that I did a lot .
We sign with a major label .
And it comes out and it sells about 25,000 copies in the first few weeks , and the label considers this a failure .
Right at this same time , I &apos;m signing and hugging after a gig , and a guy comes up to me and hands me a $ 10 bill , and he says , &quot; I &apos;m sorry , I burned your CD from a friend . &quot;
I just want you to have this money . &quot; &quot; And this starts happening all the time .
I become the hat after my own gigs , but I have to physically stand there and take the help from people , and unlike the guy in the opening band , I &apos;ve actually had a lot of practice standing there .
And this is the moment I decide I &apos;m just going to give away my music for free online whenever possible , so it &apos;s like Metallica over here , Napster , bad ; Amanda Palmer over here , and I &apos;m going to encourage torrenting , downloading , sharing , but I &apos;m going to ask for help , because I saw it work on the street .
So I fought my way off my label , and for my next project with my new band , the Grand Theft Orchestra , I turned to crowdfunding .
And I fell into those thousands of connections that I &apos;d made , and I asked my crowd to catch me .
( Applause ) And you can see how many people it is .
And the media asked , &quot; &quot; Amanda , the music business is tanking and you encourage piracy .
And through the very act of asking people , I &apos;d connected with them , and when you connect with them , people want to help you .
And a lot of artists have a problem with this .
And I got a lot of criticism online , after my Kickstarter went big , for continuing my crazy crowdsourcing practices , specifically for asking musicians who are fans if they wanted to join us on stage for a few songs in exchange for love and tickets and beer , and this was a doctored image that went up of me on a website .
And people saying , &quot; You &apos;re not allowed anymore to ask for that kind of help , &quot; really reminded me of the people in their cars yelling , &quot; &quot; Get a job . &quot; &quot; Because they weren &apos;t with us on the sidewalk , and they couldn &apos;t see the exchange that was happening between me and my crowd , an exchange that was very fair to us but alien to them .
Now let me tell you , if you want to experience the visceral feeling of trusting strangers — ( Laughter ) I recommend this , especially if those strangers are drunk German people . ( Laughter )
This was a ninja master-level fan connection , because what I was really saying here was , I trust you this much .
For most of human history , musicians , artists , they &apos;ve been part of the community .
Celebrity is about a lot of people loving you from a distance , but the Internet and the content that we &apos;re freely able to share on it are taking us back .
It &apos;s about a few people loving you up close and about those people being enough .
So a lot of people are confused by the idea of no hard sticker price .
But the perfect tools aren &apos;t going to help us if we can &apos;t face each other and give and receive fearlessly , but , more important — to ask without shame .
So blogging and tweeting not just about my tour dates and my new video but about our work and our art and our fears and our hangovers , our mistakes , and we see each other .
And I think when we really see each other , we want to help each other .
I think people have been obsessed with the wrong question , which is , &quot; &quot; How do we make people pay for music ? &quot; &quot; What if we started asking , &quot; How do we let people pay for music ? &quot;
So the question is , what is invisible ?
There is more of it than you think , actually .
Everything , I would say . Everything that matters except every thing and except matter .
We can see matter . But we can &apos;t see what &apos;s the matter .
As in this cryptic sentence I found in The Guardian recently : &quot; &quot; The marriage suffered a setback in 1965 , when the husband was killed by the wife . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) There &apos;s a world of invisibility there , isn &apos;t there ? ( Laughter )
So , we can see the stars and the planets , but we can &apos;t see what holds them apart or what draws them together .
With matter , as with people , we see only the skin of things .
We can &apos;t see into the engine room .
We can &apos;t see what makes people tick , at least not without difficulty .
And the closer we look at anything , the more it disappears .
In fact , if you look really closely at stuff , if you look at the basic substructure of matter , there isn &apos;t anything there .
Electrons disappear in a kind of fuzz , and there is only energy . And you can &apos;t see energy .
So everything that matters , that &apos;s important , is invisible .
One slightly silly thing that &apos;s invisible is this story , which is invisible to you .
And I &apos;m now going to make it visible to you in your minds .
It &apos;s about an M.P. called Geoffrey Dickens .
The late Geoffrey Dickens , M.P. was attending a fete in his constituency .
Wherever he went , at every stall he stopped he was closely followed by a devoted smiling woman of indescribable ugliness .
( Laughter ) Try as he might , he couldn &apos;t get away from her .
A few days later he received a letter from a constituent saying how much she admired him , had met him at a fete and asking for a signed photograph .
After her name , written in brackets was the apt description , horse face .
( Laughter ) &quot; &quot; I &apos;ve misjudged this women , &quot; &quot; thought Mr. Dickens .
&quot; &quot; Not only is she aware of her physical repulsiveness , she turns it to her advantage .
A photo is not enough . &quot; &quot; So he went out and bought a plastic frame to put the photograph in .
And on the photograph , he wrote with a flourish , &quot; To Horse Face , with love from Geoffrey Dickens , M.P. &quot;
After it had been sent off , his secretary said to him , &quot; &quot; Did you get that letter from the woman at the fete ?
I wrote Horse Face on her , so you &apos;d remember who she was . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) I bet he thought he wished he was invisible , don &apos;t you ? ( Laughter )
So , one of the interesting things about invisibility is that things that we can &apos;t see we also can &apos;t understand .
Gravity is one thing that we can &apos;t see and which we don &apos;t understand .
It &apos;s the least understood of all the four fundamental forces , and the weakest .
And nobody really knows what it is or why it &apos;s there .
For what it &apos;s worth , Sir Isaac Newton , the greatest scientist who ever lived , he thought Jesus came to Earth specifically to operate the levers of gravity .
That &apos;s what he thought he was there for .
So , bright guy , could be wrong on that one , I don &apos;t know .
( Laughter ) Consciousness . I see all your faces .
I have no idea what any of you are thinking . Isn &apos;t that amazing ?
Isn &apos;t that incredible that we can &apos;t read each other &apos;s minds ?
But we can touch each other , taste each other perhaps , if we get close enough .
But we can &apos;t read each other &apos;s minds . I find that quite astonishing .
In the Sufi faith , this great Middle Eastern religion , which some claim is the route of all religions , Sufi masters are all telepaths , so they say .
But their main exercise of telepathy is to send out powerful signals to the rest of us that it doesn &apos;t exist .
So that &apos;s why we don &apos;t think it exists , the Sufi masters working on us .
In the question of consciousness and artificial intelligence , artificial intelligence has really , like the study of consciousness , gotten nowhere . We have no idea how consciousness works .
With artificial intelligence , not only have they not created artificial intelligence , they haven &apos;t yet created artificial stupidity .
( Laughter ) The laws of physics : invisible , eternal , omnipresent , all-powerful .
Remind you of anyone ?
Interesting . I &apos;m , as you can guess , not a materialist , I &apos;m an immaterialist .
And I &apos;ve found a very useful new word , ignostic . Okay ?
I &apos;m an ignostic .
I refuse to be drawn on the question of whether God exists , until somebody properly defines the terms .
( Laughter ) Another thing we can &apos;t see is the human genome .
And this is increasingly peculiar , because about 20 years ago , when they started delving into the genome , they thought it would probably contain around 100,000 genes .
Geneticists will know this , but every year since , it &apos;s been revised downwards .
We now think there are likely to be only just over 20,000 genes in the human genome .
This is extraordinary . Because rice — get this — rice is known to have 38 thousand genes .
Potatoes , potatoes have 48 chromosomes . Do you know that ?
Two more than people , and the same as a gorilla .
( Laughter ) You can &apos;t see these things , but they are very strange . ( Laughter )
The stars by day . I always think that &apos;s fascinating .
The universe disappears .
The more light there is , the less you can see .
Time , nobody can see time .
I don &apos;t know if you know this . Modern physics , there is a big movement in modern physics to decide that time doesn &apos;t really exist , because it &apos;s too inconvenient for the figures .
It &apos;s much easier if it &apos;s not really there .
You can &apos;t see the future , obviously .
And you can &apos;t see the past , except in your memory .
One of the interesting things about the past is you particularly can &apos;t see . My son asked me this the other day , he said , &quot; &quot; Dad , can you remember what I was like when I was two ? &quot; &quot; And I said , &quot; &quot; Yes . &quot; &quot; And he said , &quot; &quot; Why can &apos;t I ? &quot; &quot; Isn &apos;t that extraordinary ? You cannot remember what happened to you earlier than the age of two or three , which is great news for psychoanalysts , because otherwise they &apos;d be out of a job .
Because that &apos;s where all the stuff happens ( Laughter ) that makes you who you are .
Another thing you can &apos;t see is the grid on which we hang .
This is fascinating . You probably know , some of you , that cells are continually renewed . You can see it in skin and this kind of stuff .
Skin flakes off , hairs grow , nails , that kind of stuff .
But every cell in your body is replaced at some point .
Taste buds , every 10 days or so .
Livers and internal organs sort of take a bit longer . A spine takes several years .
But at the end of seven years , not one cell in your body remains from what was there seven years ago .
The question is , who , then , are we ?
What are we ? What is this thing that we hang on , that is actually us ?
Okay . Atoms , you can &apos;t see them .
Nobody ever will . They &apos;re smaller than the wavelength of light .
Gas , you can &apos;t see that .
Interesting . Somebody mentioned 1600 recently .
Gas was invented in 1600 by a Dutch chemist called Van Helmont .
It &apos;s said to be the most successful ever invention of a word by a known individual .
Quite good . He also invented a word called &quot; &quot; blas , &quot; &quot; meaning astral radiation .
Didn &apos;t catch on , unfortunately .
( Laughter ) But well done , him . ( Laughter )
There is so many things that — Light .
You can &apos;t see light . When it &apos;s dark , in a vacuum , if a person shines a beam of light straight across your eyes , you won &apos;t see it . Slightly technical , some physicists will disagree with this .
But it &apos;s odd that you can &apos;t see the beam of light , you can only see what it hits .
I find that extraordinary , not to be able to see light , not to be able to see darkness .
Electricity , you can &apos;t see that .
Don &apos;t let anyone tell you they understand electricity .
They don &apos;t . Nobody knows what it is .
( Laughter ) You probably think the electrons in an electric wire move instantaneously down a wire , don &apos;t you , at the speed of light when you turn the light on . They don &apos;t .
Electrons bumble down the wire , about the speed of spreading honey , they say .
( Laughter ) Galaxies , 100 billion of them estimated in the universe .
100 billion . How many can we see ? Five .
Five out of the 100 billion galaxies , with the naked eye , and one of them is quite difficult to see unless you &apos;ve got very good eyesight .
Radio waves . There &apos;s another thing .
Heinrich Hertz , when he discovered radio waves in 1887 , he called them radio waves because they radiated .
And somebody said to him , &quot; &quot; Well what &apos;s the point of these , Heinrich ?
What &apos;s the point of these radio waves that you &apos;ve found ? &quot; &quot; And he said , &quot; &quot; Well , I &apos;ve no idea .
But I guess somebody will find a use for them someday . &quot; &quot; And that &apos;s what they do , radio . That &apos;s what they discovered .
Anyway , so the biggest thing that &apos;s invisible to us is what we don &apos;t know .
It is incredible how little we know .
Thomas Edison once said , &quot; &quot; We don &apos;t know one percent of one millionth about anything . &quot; &quot; And I &apos;ve come to the conclusion — because you &apos;ve asked this other question , &quot; &quot; What &apos;s another thing you can &apos;t see ? &quot; &quot; The point , most of us . What &apos;s the point ?
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) You can &apos;t see a point . It &apos;s by definition dimensionless , like an electron , oddly enough .
But the point , what I &apos;ve got it down to , is there are only two questions really worth asking .
&quot; &quot; Why are we here ? &quot; &quot; and &quot; &quot; What should we do about it while we are ?
And to help you , I &apos;ve got two things to leave you with , from two great philosophers , perhaps two of the greatest philosopher thinkers of the 20th century , one a mathematician and an engineer , and the other a poet .
The first is Ludwig Wittgenstein who said , &quot; &quot; I don &apos;t know why we are here .
But I &apos;m pretty sure it &apos;s not in order to enjoy ourselves . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) He was a cheerful bastard wasn &apos;t he ? ( Laughter )
And secondly and lastly , W.H. Auden , one of my favorite poets , who said , &quot; &quot; We are here on earth to help others .
What the others are here for , I &apos;ve no idea . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) ( Applause )
And I &apos;m going to be folding one of Robert Lang &apos;s models .
And this is the piece of paper it will be made from , and you can see all of the folds that are needed for it .
And Rufus is going to be doing some improvisation on his custom , five-string electric cello , and it &apos;s very exciting to listen to him .
Just to make it a little bit more exciting .
All right . Take it away , Rufus .
( Music ) All right . There you go .
( Laughter ) ( Applause )
Now , if President Obama invited me to be the next Czar of Mathematics , then I would have a suggestion for him that I think would vastly improve the mathematics education in this country .
And it would be easy to implement and inexpensive .
The mathematics curriculum that we have is based on a foundation of arithmetic and algebra .
And everything we learn after that is building up towards one subject .
And at top of that pyramid , it &apos;s calculus .
And I &apos;m here to say that I think that that is the wrong summit of the pyramid ...
that the correct summit — that all of our students , every high school graduate should know — should be statistics : probability and statistics .
( Applause ) I mean , don &apos;t get me wrong . Calculus is an important subject .
It &apos;s one of the great products of the human mind .
The laws of nature are written in the language of calculus .
And every student who studies math , science , engineering , economics , they should definitely learn calculus by the end of their freshman year of college .
But I &apos;m here to say , as a professor of mathematics , that very few people actually use calculus in a conscious , meaningful way , in their day-to-day lives .
On the other hand , statistics — that &apos;s a subject that you could , and should , use on daily basis . Right ?
It &apos;s risk . It &apos;s reward . It &apos;s randomness .
It &apos;s understanding data .
I think if our students , if our high school students — if all of the American citizens — knew about probability and statistics , we wouldn &apos;t be in the economic mess that we &apos;re in today . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Not only — thank you — not only that ...
but if it &apos;s taught properly , it can be a lot of fun .
I mean , probability and statistics , it &apos;s the mathematics of games and gambling .
It &apos;s analyzing trends . It &apos;s predicting the future .
Look , the world has changed from analog to digital .
And it &apos;s time for our mathematics curriculum to change from analog to digital , from the more classical , continuous mathematics , to the more modern , discrete mathematics — the mathematics of uncertainty , of randomness , of data — that being probability and statistics .
In summary , instead of our students learning about the techniques of calculus , I think it would be far more significant if all of them knew what two standard deviations from the mean means . And I mean it .
Thank you very much .
( Applause )
I thought I would think about changing your perspective on the world a bit , and showing you some of the designs that we have in nature .
And so , I have my first slide to talk about the dawning of the universe and what I call the cosmic scene investigation , that is , looking at the relics of creation and inferring what happened at the beginning , and then following it up and trying to understand it .
And so one of the questions that I asked you is , when you look around , what do you see ?
Well , you see this space that &apos;s created by designers and by the work of people , but what you actually see is a lot of material that was already here , being reshaped in a certain form .
And so the question is : how did that material get here ?
How did it get into the form that it had before it got reshaped , and so forth ?
It &apos;s a question of what &apos;s the continuity ?
So one of the things I look at is , how did the universe begin and shape ?
What was the whole process in the creation and the evolution of the universe to getting to the point that we have these kinds of materials ?
So that &apos;s sort of the part , and let me move on then and show you the Hubble Ultra Deep Field .
If you look at this picture , what you will see is a lot of dark with some light objects in it .
And everything but — four of these light objects are stars , and you can see them there — little pluses .
This is a star , this is a star , everything else is a galaxy , OK ?
So there &apos;s a couple of thousand galaxies you can see easily with your eye in here .
And when I look out at particularly this galaxy , which looks a lot like ours , I wonder if there &apos;s an art design college conference going on , and intelligent beings there are thinking about , you know , what designs they might do , and there might be a few cosmologists trying to understand where the universe itself came from , and there might even be some in that galaxy looking at ours trying to figure out what &apos;s going on over here .
But there &apos;s a lot of other galaxies , and some are nearby , and they &apos;re kind of the color of the Sun , and some are further away and they &apos;re a little bluer , and so forth .
But one of the questions is — this should be , to you — how come there are so many galaxies ?
Because this represents a very clean fraction of the sky .
This is only 1,000 galaxies .
We think there &apos;s on the order — visible to the Hubble Space Telescope , if you had the time to scan it around — about 100 billion galaxies . Right ?
It &apos;s a very large number of galaxies .
And that &apos;s roughly how many stars there are in our own galaxy .
But when you look at some of these regions like this , you &apos;ll see more galaxies than stars , which is kind of a conundrum .
So the question should come to your mind is , what kind of design , you know , what kind of creative process and what kind of design produced the world like that ?
And then I &apos;m going to show you it &apos;s actually a lot more complicated .
We &apos;re going to try and follow it up .
We have a tool that actually helps us out in this study , and that &apos;s the fact that the universe is so incredibly big that it &apos;s a time machine , in a certain sense .
We draw this set of nested spheres cut away so you see it .
Put the Earth at the center of the nested spheres , just because that &apos;s where we &apos;re making observations .
And the moon is only two seconds away , so if you take a picture of the moon using ordinary light , it &apos;s the moon two seconds ago , and who cares .
Two seconds is like the present .
The Sun is eight minutes ago . That &apos;s not such a big deal , right , unless there &apos;s solar flares coming then you want to get out the way .
You &apos;d like to have a little advance warning .
But you get out to Jupiter and it &apos;s 40 minutes away . It &apos;s a problem .
You hear about Mars , it &apos;s a problem communicating to Mars because it takes light long enough to go there .
But if you look out to the nearest set of stars , to the nearest 40 or 50 stars , it &apos;s about 10 years .
So if you take a picture of what &apos;s going on , it &apos;s 10 years ago .
But you go and look to the center of the galaxy , it &apos;s thousands of years ago .
If you look at Andromeda , which is the nearest big galaxy , and it &apos;s two million years ago .
If you took a picture of the Earth two million years ago , there &apos;d be no evidence of humans at all , because we don &apos;t think there were humans yet .
I mean , it just gives you the scale .
With the Hubble Space Telescope , we &apos;re looking at hundreds of millions of years to a billion years .
But if we were capable to come up with an idea of how to look even further — there &apos;s some things even further , and that was what I did in a lot of my work , was to develop the techniques — we could look out back to even earlier epochs before there were stars and before there were galaxies , back to when the universe was hot and dense and very different .
And so that &apos;s the sort of sequence , and so I have a more artistic impression of this .
There &apos;s the galaxy in the middle , which is the Milky Way , and around that are the Hubble — you know , nearby kind of galaxies , and there &apos;s a sphere that marks the different times .
And behind that are some more modern galaxies .
You see the whole big picture ?
The beginning of time is funny — it &apos;s on the outside , right ?
And then there &apos;s a part of the universe we can &apos;t see because it &apos;s so dense and so hot , light can &apos;t escape .
It &apos;s like you can &apos;t see to the center of the Sun ; you have to use other techniques to know what &apos;s going on inside the Sun .
But you can see the edge of the Sun , and the universe gets that way , and you can see that .
And then you see this sort of model area around the outside , and that is the radiation coming from the Big Bang , which is actually incredibly uniform .
The universe is almost a perfect sphere , but there are these very tiny variations which we show here in great exaggeration .
And from them in the time sequence we &apos;re going to have to go from these tiny variations to these irregular galaxies and first stars to these more advanced galaxies , and eventually the solar system , and so forth .
So it &apos;s a big design job , but we &apos;ll see about how things are going on .
So the way these measurements were done , there &apos;s been a set of satellites , and this is where you get to see .
So there was the COBE satellite , which was launched in 1989 , and we discovered these variations .
And then in 2000 , the MAP satellite was launched — the WMAP — and it made somewhat better pictures .
And later this year — this is the cool stealth version , the one that actually has some beautiful design features to it , and you should look — the Planck satellite will be launched , and it will make very high-resolution maps .
And that will be the sequence of understanding the very beginning of the universe .
And what we saw was , we saw these variations , and then they told us the secrets , both about the structure of space-time , and about the contents of the universe , and about how the universe started in its original motions .
So we have this picture , which is quite a spectacular picture , and I &apos;ll come back to the beginning , where we &apos;re going to have some mysterious process that kicks the universe off at the beginning .
And we go through a period of accelerating expansion , and the universe expands and cools until it gets to the point where it becomes transparent , then to the Dark Ages , and then the first stars turn on , and they evolve into galaxies , and then later they get to the more expansive galaxies .
And somewhere around this period is when our solar system started forming .
And it &apos;s maturing up to the present time .
And there &apos;s some spectacular things .
And this wastebasket part , that &apos;s to represent what the structure of space-time itself is doing during this period .
And so this is a pretty weird model , right ?
What kind of evidence do we have for that ?
So let me show you some of nature &apos;s patterns that are the result of this .
I always think of space-time as being the real substance of space , and the galaxies and the stars just like the foam on the ocean .
It &apos;s a marker of where the interesting waves are and whatever went on .
So here is the Sloan Digital Sky Survey showing the location of a million galaxies .
So there &apos;s a dot on here for every galaxy .
They go out and point a telescope at the sky , take a picture , identify what are stars and throw them away , look at the galaxies , estimate how far away they are , and plot them up .
And just put radially they &apos;re going out that way .
And you see these structures , this thing we call the Great Wall , but there are voids and those kinds of stuff , and they kind of fade out because the telescope isn &apos;t sensitive enough to do it .
Now I &apos;m going to show you this in 3D .
What happens is , you take pictures as the Earth rotates , you get a fan across the sky .
There are some places you can &apos;t look because of our own galaxy , or because there are no telescopes available to do it .
So the next picture shows you the three-dimensional version of this rotating around .
Do you see the fan-like scans made across the sky ?
Remember , every spot on here is a galaxy , and you see the galaxies , you know , sort of in our neighborhood , and you sort of see the structure .
And you see this thing we call the Great Wall , and you see the complicated structure , and you see these voids .
There are places where there are no galaxies and there are places where there are thousands of galaxies clumped together , right .
So there &apos;s an interesting pattern , but we don &apos;t have enough data here to actually see the pattern .
We only have a million galaxies , right ?
So we &apos;re keeping , like , a million balls in the air but , what &apos;s going on ?
There &apos;s another survey which is very similar to this , called the Two-degree Field of View Galaxy Redshift Survey .
Now we &apos;re going to fly through it at warp a million .
And every time there &apos;s a galaxy — at its location there &apos;s a galaxy — and if we know anything about the galaxy , which we do , because there &apos;s a redshift measurement and everything , you put in the type of galaxy and the color , so this is the real representation .
And when you &apos;re in the middle of the galaxies it &apos;s hard to see the pattern ; it &apos;s like being in the middle of life .
It &apos;s hard to see the pattern in the middle of the audience , it &apos;s hard to see the pattern of this .
So we &apos;re going to go out and swing around and look back at this .
And you &apos;ll see , first , the structure of the survey , and then you &apos;ll start seeing the structure of the galaxies that we see out there .
So again , you can see the extension of this Great Wall of galaxies showing up here .
But you can see the voids , you can see the complicated structure , and you say , well , how did this happen ?
Suppose you &apos;re the cosmic designer .
How are you going to put galaxies out there in a pattern like that ?
It &apos;s not just throwing them out at random .
There &apos;s a more complicated process going on here .
How are you going to end up doing that ?
And so now we &apos;re in for some serious play .
That is , we have to seriously play God , not just change people &apos;s lives , but make the universe , right .
So if that &apos;s your responsibility , how are you going to do that ?
What &apos;s the kind of technique ?
What &apos;s the kind of thing you &apos;re going to do ?
So I &apos;m going to show you the results of a very large-scale simulation of what we think the universe might be like , using , essentially , some of the play principles and some of the design principles that , you know , humans have labored so hard to pick up , but apparently nature knew how to do at the beginning .
And that is , you start out with very simple ingredients and some simple rules , but you have to have enough ingredients to make it complicated .
And then you put in some randomness , some fluctuations and some randomness , and realize a whole bunch of different representations .
So what I &apos;m going to do is show you the distribution of matter as a function of scales .
We &apos;re going to zoom in , but this is a plot of what it is .
And we had to add one more thing to make the universe come out right .
It &apos;s called dark matter .
That is matter that doesn &apos;t interact with light the typical way that ordinary matter does , the way the light &apos;s shining on me or on the stage .
It &apos;s transparent to light , but in order for you to see it , we &apos;re going to make it white . OK ?
So the stuff that &apos;s in this picture that &apos;s white , that is the dark matter .
It should be called invisible matter , but the dark matter we &apos;ve made visible .
And the stuff that is in the yellow color , that is the ordinary kind of matter that &apos;s turned into stars and galaxies .
So I &apos;ll show you the next movie .
So this — we &apos;re going to zoom in .
Notice this pattern and pay attention to this pattern .
We &apos;re going to zoom in and zoom in .
And you &apos;ll see there are all these filaments and structures and voids .
And when a number of filaments come together in a knot , that makes a supercluster of galaxies .
This one we &apos;re zooming in on is somewhere between 100,000 and a million galaxies in that small region .
So we live in the boonies .
We don &apos;t live in the center of the solar system , we don &apos;t live in the center of the galaxy and our galaxy &apos;s not in the center of the cluster .
So we &apos;re zooming in .
This is a region which probably has more than 100,000 , on the order of a million galaxies in that region .
We &apos;re going to keep zooming in . OK .
And so I forgot to tell you the scale .
A parsec is 3.26 light years .
So a gigaparsec is three billion light years — that &apos;s the scale .
So it takes light three billion years to travel over that distance .
Now we &apos;re into a distance sort of between here and here .
That &apos;s the distance between us and Andromeda , right ?
These little specks that you &apos;re seeing in here , they &apos;re galaxies .
Now we &apos;re going to zoom back out , and you can see this structure that , when we get very far out , looks very regular , but it &apos;s made up of a lot of irregular variations .
So they &apos;re simple building blocks .
There &apos;s a very simple fluid to begin with .
It &apos;s got dark matter , it &apos;s got ordinary matter , it &apos;s got photons and it &apos;s got neutrinos , which don &apos;t play much role in the later part of the universe .
And it &apos;s just a simple fluid and it , over time , develops into this complicated structure .
And so you know when you first saw this picture , it didn &apos;t mean quite so much to you .
Here you &apos;re looking across one percent of the volume of the visible universe and you &apos;re seeing billions of galaxies , right , and nodes , but you realize they &apos;re not even the main structure .
There &apos;s a framework , which is the dark matter , the invisible matter , that &apos;s out there that &apos;s actually holding it all together .
So let &apos;s fly through it , and you can see how much harder it is when you &apos;re in the middle of something to figure this out .
So here &apos;s that same end result .
You see a filament , you see the light is the invisible matter , and the yellow is the stars or the galaxies showing up .
And we &apos;re going to fly around , and we &apos;ll fly around , and you &apos;ll see occasionally a couple of filaments intersect , and you get a large cluster of galaxies .
And then we &apos;ll fly in to where the very large cluster is , and you can see what it looks like .
And so from inside , it doesn &apos;t look very complicated , right ?
It &apos;s only when you look at it at a very large scale , and explore it and so forth , you realize it &apos;s a very intricate , complicated kind of a design , right ?
And it &apos;s grown up in some kind of way .
So the question is , how hard would it be to assemble this , right ?
How big a contractor team would you need to put this universe together , right ?
That &apos;s the issue , right ?
And so here we are .
You see how the filament — you see how several filaments are coming together , therefore making this supercluster of galaxies .
And you have to understand , this is not how it would actually look if you — first , you can &apos;t travel this fast , everything would be distorted , but this is using simple rendering and graphic arts kind of stuff .
This is how , if you took billions of years to go around , it might look to you , right ?
And if you could see invisible matter , too .
And so the idea is , you know , how would you put together the universe in a very simple way ?
We &apos;re going to start and realize that the entire visible universe , everything we can see in every direction with the Hubble Space Telescope plus our other instruments , was once in a region that was smaller than an atom .
It started with tiny quantum mechanical fluctuations , but expanding at a tremendous rate .
And those fluctuations were stretched to astronomical sizes , and those fluctuations eventually are the things we see in the cosmic microwave background .
And then we needed some way to turn those fluctuations into galaxies and clusters of galaxies and make these kinds of structures go on .
So I &apos;m going to show you a smaller simulation .
This simulation was run on 1,000 processors for a month in order to make just this simple visible one .
So I &apos;m going to show you one that can be run on a desktop in two days in the next picture .
So you start out with teeny fluctuations when the universe was at this point , now four times smaller , and so forth .
And you start seeing these networks , this cosmic web of structure forming .
And this is a simple one , because it doesn &apos;t have the ordinary matter and it just has the dark matter in it .
And you see how the dark matter lumps up , and the ordinary matter just trails along behind .
So there it is .
At the beginning it &apos;s very uniform .
The fluctuations are a part in 100,000 .
There are a few peaks that are a part in 10,000 , and then over billions of years , gravity just pulls in .
This is light over density , pulls the material around in .
That pulls in more material and pulls in more material .
But the distances on the universe are so large and the time scales are so large that it takes a long time for this to form .
And it keeps forming until the universe is roughly about half the size it is now , in terms of its expansion .
And at that point , the universe mysteriously starts accelerating its expansion and cuts off the formation of larger-scale structure .
So we &apos;re just seeing as large a scale structure as we can see , and then only things that have started forming already are going to form , and then from then on it &apos;s going to go on .
So we &apos;re able to do the simulation , but this is two days on a desktop .
We need , you know , 30 days on 1,000 processors to do the kind of simulation that I showed you before .
So we have an idea of how to play seriously , creating the universe by starting with essentially less than an eyedrop full of material , and we create everything we can see in any direction , right , from almost nothing — that is , something extremely tiny , extremely small — and it is almost perfect , except it has these tiny fluctuations at a part in 100,000 level , which turn out to produce the interesting patterns and designs we see , that is , galaxies and stars and so forth .
So we have a model , and we can calculate it , and we can use it to make designs of what we think the universe really looks like .
And that design is sort of way beyond what our original imagination ever was .
So this is what we started with 15 years ago , with the Cosmic Background Explorer — made the map on the upper right , which basically showed us that there were large-scale fluctuations , and actually fluctuations on several scales . You can kind of see that .
Since then we &apos;ve had WMAP , which just gives us higher angular resolution .
We see the same large-scale structure , but we see additional small-scale structure .
And on the bottom right is if the satellite had flipped upside down and mapped the Earth , what kind of a map we would have got of the Earth .
You can see , well , you can , kind of pick out all the major continents , but that &apos;s about it .
But what we &apos;re hoping when we get to Planck , we &apos;ll have resolution about equivalent to the resolution you see of the Earth there , where you can really see the complicated pattern that exists on the Earth .
And you can also tell , because of the sharp edges and the way things fit together , there are some non-linear processes .
Geology has these effects , which is moving the plates around and so forth .
You can see that just from the map alone .
We want to get to the point in our maps of the early universe we can see whether there are any non-linear effects that are starting to move , to modify , and are giving us a hint about how space-time itself was actually created at the beginning moments .
So that &apos;s where we are today , and that &apos;s what I wanted to give you a flavor of .
Give you a different view about what the design and what everything else looks like .
Thank you .
( Applause )
Planetary systems outside our own are like distant cities whose lights we can see twinkling , but whose streets we can &apos;t walk .
By studying those twinkling lights though , we can learn about how stars and planets interact to form their own ecosystem and make habitats that are amenable to life .
In this image of the Tokyo skyline , I &apos;ve hidden data from the newest planet-hunting space telescope on the block , the Kepler Mission .
Can you see it ?
There we go .
This is just a tiny part of the sky the Kepler stares at , where it searches for planets by measuring the light from over 150,000 stars , all at once , every half hour , and very precisely .
And what we &apos;re looking for is the tiny dimming of light that is caused by a planet passing in front of one of these stars and blocking some of that starlight from getting to us .
In just over two years of operations , we &apos;ve found over 1,200 potential new planetary systems around other stars .
To give you some perspective , in the previous two decades of searching , we had only known about 400 prior to Kepler .
When we see these little dips in the light , we can determine a number of things .
For one thing , we can determine that there &apos;s a planet there , but also how big that planet is and how far it is away from its parent star .
That distance is really important because it tells us how much light the planet receives overall .
And that distance and knowing that amount of light is important because it &apos;s a little like you or I sitting around a campfire : You want to be close enough to the campfire so that you &apos;re warm , but not so close that you &apos;re too toasty and you get burned .
However , there &apos;s more to know about your parent star than just how much light you receive overall .
And I &apos;ll tell you why .
This is our star . This is our Sun .
It &apos;s shown here in visible light .
That &apos;s the light that you can see with your own human eyes .
You &apos;ll notice that it looks pretty much like the iconic yellow ball — that Sun that we all draw when we &apos;re children .
But you &apos;ll notice something else , and that &apos;s that the face of the Sun has freckles .
These freckles are called sunspots , and they are just one of the manifestations of the Sun &apos;s magnetic field .
They also cause the light from the star to vary .
And we can measure this very , very precisely with Kepler and trace their effects .
However , these are just the tip of the iceberg .
If we had UV eyes or X-ray eyes , we would really see the dynamic and dramatic effects of our Sun &apos;s magnetic activity — the kind of thing that happens on other stars as well .
Just think , even when it &apos;s cloudy outside , these kind of events are happening in the sky above you all the time .
So when we want to learn whether a planet is habitable , whether it might be amenable to life , we want to know not only how much total light it receives and how warm it is , but we want to know about its space weather — this high-energy radiation , the UV and the X-rays that are created by its star and that bathe it in this bath of high-energy radiation .
And so , we can &apos;t really look at planets around other stars in the same kind of detail that we can look at planets in our own solar system .
I &apos;m showing here Venus , Earth and Mars — three planets in our own solar system that are roughly the same size , but only one of which is really a good place to live .
But what we can do in the meantime is measure the light from our stars and learn about this relationship between the planets and their parent stars to suss out clues about which planets might be good places to look for life in the universe .
Kepler won &apos;t find a planet around every single star it looks at .
But really , every measurement it makes is precious , because it &apos;s teaching us about the relationship between stars and planets , and how it &apos;s really the starlight that sets the stage for the formation of life in the universe .
While it &apos;s Kepler the telescope , the instrument that stares , it &apos;s we , life , who are searching .
Thank you .
( Applause )
How does the news shape the way we see the world ?
Here &apos;s the world based on the way it looks — based on landmass .
And here &apos;s how news shapes what Americans see .
This map — ( Applause ) — this map shows the number of seconds that American network and cable news organizations dedicated to news stories , by country , in February of 2007 — just one year ago .
Now , this was a month when North Korea agreed to dismantle its nuclear facilities .
There was massive flooding in Indonesia .
And in Paris , the IPCC released its study confirming man &apos;s impact on global warming .
The U.S. accounted for 79 percent of total news coverage .
And when we take out the U.S. and look at the remaining 21 percent , we see a lot of Iraq — that &apos;s that big green thing there — and little else .
The combined coverage of Russia , China and India , for example , reached just one percent .
When we analyzed all the news stories and removed just one story , here &apos;s how the world looked .
What was that story ? The death of Anna Nicole Smith .
This story eclipsed every country except Iraq , and received 10 times the coverage of the IPCC report .
And the cycle continues ; as we all know , Britney has loomed pretty large lately .
So , why don &apos;t we hear more about the world ?
One reason is that news networks have reduced the number of their foreign bureaus by half .
Aside from one-person ABC mini-bureaus in Nairobi , New Delhi and Mumbai , there are no network news bureaus in all of Africa , India or South America — places that are home to more than two billion people .
The reality is that covering Britney is cheaper .
And this lack of global coverage is all the more disturbing when we see where people go for news .
Local TV news looms large , and unfortunately only dedicates 12 percent of its coverage to international news .
And what about the web ?
The most popular news sites don &apos;t do much better .
Last year , Pew and the Colombia J-School analyzed the 14,000 stories that appeared on Google News &apos; front page .
And they , in fact , covered the same 24 news events .
Similarly , a study in e-content showed that much of global news from U.S. news creators is recycled stories from the AP wire services and Reuters , and don &apos;t put things into a context that people can understand their connection to it .
So , if you put it all together , this could help explain why today &apos;s college graduates , as well as less educated Americans , know less about the world than their counterparts did 20 years ago .
And if you think it &apos;s simply because we are not interested , you would be wrong .
In recent years , Americans who say they closely follow global news most of the time grew to over 50 percent .
The real question : is this distorted worldview what we want for Americans in our increasingly interconnected world ?
I know we can do better .
And can we afford not to ? Thank you .
I have the answer to a question that we &apos;ve all asked .
The question is , Why is it that the letter X represents the unknown ?
Now I know we learned that in math class , but now it &apos;s everywhere in the culture — The X prize , the X-Files , Project X , TEDx .
Where &apos;d that come from ?
About six years ago I decided that I would learn Arabic , which turns out to be a supremely logical language .
To write a word or a phrase or a sentence in Arabic is like crafting an equation , because every part is extremely precise and carries a lot of information .
That &apos;s one of the reasons so much of what we &apos;ve come to think of as Western science and mathematics and engineering was really worked out in the first few centuries of the Common Era by the Persians and the Arabs and the Turks .
This includes the little system in Arabic called al-jebra .
And al-jebr roughly translates to &quot; the system for reconciling disparate parts . &quot;
Al-jebr finally came into English as algebra .
One example among many .
The Arabic texts containing this mathematical wisdom finally made their way to Europe — which is to say Spain — in the 11th and 12th centuries .
And when they arrived there was tremendous interest in translating this wisdom into a European language .
But there were problems .
One problem is there are some sounds in Arabic that just don &apos;t make it through a European voice box without lots of practice .
Trust me on that one .
Also , those very sounds tend not to be represented by the characters that are available in European languages .
Here &apos;s one of the culprits .
This is the letter SHeen , and it makes the sound we think of as SH — &quot; &quot; sh . &quot; &quot; It &apos;s also the very first letter of the word shalan , which means &quot; &quot; something &quot; &quot; just like the the English word &quot; &quot; something &quot; &quot; — some undefined , unknown thing .
Now in Arabic , we can make this definite by adding the definite article &quot; &quot; al . &quot; &quot; So this is al-shalan — the unknown thing .
And this is a word that appears throughout early mathematics , such as this 10th century derivation of proofs .
The problem for the Medieval Spanish scholars who were tasked with translating this material is that the letter SHeen and the word shalan can &apos;t be rendered into Spanish because Spanish doesn &apos;t have that SH , that &quot; &quot; sh &quot; &quot; sound .
So by convention , they created a rule in which they borrowed the CK sound , &quot; &quot; ck &quot; &quot; sound , from the classical Greek in the form of the letter Kai .
Later when this material was translated into a common European language , which is to say Latin , they simply replaced the Greek Kai with the Latin X.
And once that happened , once this material was in Latin , it formed the basis for mathematics textbooks for almost 600 years .
But now we have the answer to our question .
Why is it that X is the unknown ? X is the unknown
because you can &apos;t say &quot; &quot; sh &quot; &quot; in Spanish .
( Laughter ) And I thought that was worth sharing .
( Applause )
( Music ) What you just heard are the interactions of barometric pressure , wind and temperature readings that were recorded of Hurricane Noel in 2007 .
The musicians played off a three-dimensional graph of weather data like this .
Every single bead , every single colored band , represents a weather element that can also be read as a musical note .
I find weather extremely fascinating .
Weather is an amalgam of systems that is inherently invisible to most of us .
So I use sculpture and music to make it , not just visible , but also tactile and audible .
All of my work begins very simple .
I extract information from a specific environment using very low-tech data collecting devices — generally anything I can find in the hardware store .
I then compare my information to the things I find on the Internet — satellite images , weather data from weather stations as well as offshore buoys .
That &apos;s both historical as well as real data .
And then I compile all of these numbers on these clipboards that you see here .
These clipboards are filled with numbers .
And from all of these numbers , I start with only two or three variables .
That begins my translation process .
My translation medium is a very simple basket .
A basket is made up of horizontal and vertical elements .
When I assign values to the vertical and horizontal elements , I can use the changes of those data points over time to create the form .
I use natural reed , because natural reed has a lot of tension in it that I cannot fully control .
That means that it is the numbers that control the form , not me .
What I come up with are forms like these .
These forms are completely made up of weather data or science data .
Every colored bead , every colored string , represents a weather element .
And together , these elements , not only construct the form , but they also reveal behavioral relationships that may not come across through a two-dimensional graph .
When you step closer , you actually see that it is indeed all made up of numbers .
The vertical elements are assigned a specific hour of the day .
So all the way around , you have a 24-hour timeline .
But it &apos;s also used to assign a temperature range .
On that grid , I can then weave the high tide readings , water temperature , air temperature and Moon phases .
I also translate weather data into musical scores .
And musical notation allows me a more nuanced way of translating information without compromising it .
So all of these scores are made up of weather data .
Every single color , dot , every single line , is a weather element .
And together , these variables construct a score .
I use these scores to collaborate with musicians .
This is the 1913 Trio performing one of my pieces at the Milwaukee Art Museum .
Meanwhile , I use these scores as blueprints to translate into sculptural forms like this , that function still in the sense of being a three-dimensional weather visualization , but now they &apos;re embedding the visual matrix of the musical score , so it can actually be read as a musical score .
What I love about this work is that it challenges our assumptions of what kind of visual vocabulary belongs in the world of art , versus science .
This piece here is read very differently depending on where you place it .
You place it in an art museum , it becomes a sculpture .
You place it in a science museum , it becomes a three-dimensional visualization of data .
You place it in a music hall , it all of a sudden becomes a musical score .
And I really like that , because the viewer is really challenged as to what visual language is part of science versus art versus music .
The other reason why I really like this is because it offers an alternative entry point into the complexity of science .
And not everyone has a Ph.D. in science .
So for me , that was my way into it .
Thank you .
( Applause )
I could never have imagined that a 19-year-old suicide bomber would actually teach me a valuable lesson .
But he did .
He taught me to never presume anything about anyone you don &apos;t know .
On a Thursday morning in July 2005 , the bomber and I , unknowingly , boarded the same train carriage at the same time , standing , apparently , just feet apart .
I didn &apos;t see him .
Actually , I didn &apos;t see anyone .
You know not to look at anyone on the Tube , but I guess he saw me .
I guess he looked at all of us , as his hand hovered over the detonation switch .
I &apos;ve often wondered : What was he thinking ?
Especially in those final seconds .
I know it wasn &apos;t personal .
He didn &apos;t set out to kill or maim me , Gill Hicks .
I mean — he didn &apos;t know me .
No .
Instead , he gave me an unwarranted and an unwanted label .
I had become the enemy .
To him , I was the &quot; &quot; other , &quot; &quot; the &quot; &quot; them , &quot; &quot; as opposed to &quot; &quot; us . &quot; &quot; The label &quot; &quot; enemy &quot; &quot; allowed him to dehumanize us .
It allowed him to push that button .
And he wasn &apos;t selective .
Twenty-six precious lives were taken in my carriage alone , and I was almost one of them .
In the time it takes to draw a breath , we were plunged into a darkness so immense that it was almost tangible ; what I imagine wading through tar might be like .
We didn &apos;t know we were the enemy .
We were just a bunch of commuters who , minutes earlier , had followed the Tube etiquette : no direct eye contact , no talking and absolutely no conversation .
But in the lifting of the darkness , we were reaching out .
We were helping each other .
We were calling out our names , a little bit like a roll call , waiting for responses .
&quot; &quot; I &apos;m Gill . I &apos;m here .
I &apos;m alive .
OK . &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; I &apos;m Gill .
Here .
Alive .
OK . &quot; &quot; I didn &apos;t know Alison .
But I listened for her check-ins every few minutes .
I didn &apos;t know Richard .
But it mattered to me that he survived .
All I shared with them was my first name .
They didn &apos;t know that I was a head of a department at the Design Council .
And here is my beloved briefcase , also rescued from that morning .
They didn &apos;t know that I published architecture and design journals , that I was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts , that I wore black — still do — that I smoked cigarillos .
I don &apos;t smoke cigarillos anymore .
I drank gin and I watched TED Talks , of course , never dreaming that one day I would be standing , balancing on prosthetic legs , giving a talk .
I was a young Australian woman doing extraordinary things in London .
And I wasn &apos;t ready for that all to end .
I was so determined to survive that I used my scarf to tie tourniquets around the tops of my legs , and I just shut everything and everyone out , to focus , to listen to myself , to be guided by instinct alone .
I lowered my breathing rate .
I elevated my thighs .
I held myself upright and I fought the urge to close my eyes .
I held on for almost an hour , an hour to contemplate the whole of my life up until this point .
Perhaps I should have done more .
Perhaps I could have lived more , seen more .
Maybe I should have gone running , dancing , taken up yoga .
But my priority and my focus was always my work .
I lived to work .
Who I was on my business card mattered to me .
But it didn &apos;t matter down in that tunnel .
By the time I felt that first touch from one of my rescuers , I was unable to speak , unable to say even a small word , like &quot; &quot; Gill . &quot; &quot; I surrendered my body to them .
I had done all I possibly could , and now I was in their hands .
I understood just who and what humanity really is , when I first saw the ID tag that was given to me when I was admitted to hospital .
And it read : &quot; One unknown estimated female . &quot; One unknown estimated female .
Those four words were my gift . What they told me very clearly
was that my life was saved , purely because I was a human being .
Difference of any kind made no difference to the extraordinary lengths that the rescuers were prepared to go to save my life , to save as many unknowns as they could , and putting their own lives at risk .
To them , it didn &apos;t matter if I was rich or poor , the color of my skin , whether I was male or female , my sexual orientation , who I voted for , whether I was educated , if I had a faith or no faith at all .
Nothing mattered other than I was a precious human life .
I see myself as a living fact .
I am proof that unconditional love and respect can not only save , but it can transform lives .
Here is a wonderful image of one of my rescuers , Andy , and I taken just last year .
Ten years after the event , and here we are , arm in arm .
Throughout all the chaos , my hand was held tightly .
My face was stroked gently .
What did I feel ?
I felt loved .
What &apos;s shielded me from hatred and wanting retribution , what &apos;s given me the courage to say : this ends with me is love .
I was loved .
I believe the potential for widespread positive change is absolutely enormous because I know what we &apos;re capable of .
I know the brilliance of humanity .
So this leaves me with some pretty big things to ponder and some questions for us all to consider : Is what unites us not far greater than what can ever divide ?
Does it have to take a tragedy or a disaster for us to feel deeply connected as one species , as human beings ?
And when will we embrace the wisdom of our era to rise above mere tolerance and move to an acceptance for all who are only a label until we know them ?
Thank you .
( Applause )
Hi . I &apos;m here to talk to you about the importance of praise , admiration and thank you , and having it be specific and genuine .
And the way I got interested in this was , I noticed in myself , when I was growing up , and until about a few years ago , that I would want to say thank you to someone , I would want to praise them , I would want to take in their praise of me and I &apos;d just stop it .
And I asked myself , why ?
I felt shy , I felt embarrassed .
And then my question became , am I the only one who does this ?
So , I decided to investigate .
I &apos;m fortunate enough to work in the rehab facility , so I get to see people who are facing life and death with addiction .
And sometimes it comes down to something as simple as , their core wound is their father died without ever saying he &apos;s proud of them .
But then , they hear from all the family and friends that the father told everybody else that he was proud of him , but he never told the son .
It &apos;s because he didn &apos;t know that his son needed to hear it .
So my question is , why don &apos;t we ask for the things that we need ?
I know a gentleman , married for 25 years , who &apos;s longing to hear his wife say , &quot; Thank you for being the breadwinner , so I can stay home with the kids , &quot; but won &apos;t ask .
I know a woman who &apos;s good at this .
She , once a week , meets with her husband and says , &quot; I &apos;d really like you to thank me for all these things I did in the house and with the kids . &quot;
And he goes , &quot; &quot; Oh , this is great , this is great . &quot; &quot; And praise really does have to be genuine , but she takes responsibility for that .
And a friend of mine , April , who I &apos;ve had since kindergarten , she thanks her children for doing their chores .
And she said , &quot; &quot; Why wouldn &apos;t I thank it , even though they &apos;re supposed to do it ? &quot; &quot; So , the question is , why was I blocking it ?
Why were other people blocking it ?
Why can I say , &quot; &quot; I &apos;ll take my steak medium rare , I need size six shoes , &quot; &quot; but I won &apos;t say , &quot; Would you praise me this way ? &quot;
And it &apos;s because I &apos;m giving you critical data about me .
I &apos;m telling you where I &apos;m insecure .
I &apos;m telling you where I need your help .
And I &apos;m treating you , my inner circle , like you &apos;re the enemy .
Because what can you do with that data ?
You could neglect me .
You could abuse it .
Or you could actually meet my need .
And I took my bike into the bike store — I love this — same bike , and they &apos;d do something called &quot; &quot; truing &quot; &quot; the wheels .
The guy said , &quot; &quot; You know , when you true the wheels , it &apos;s going to make the bike so much better . &quot; &quot; I get the same bike back , and they &apos;ve taken all the little warps out of those same wheels I &apos;ve had for two and a half years , and my bike is like new .
So , I &apos;m going to challenge all of you .
I want you to true your wheels : be honest about the praise that you need to hear .
What do you need to hear ? Go home to your wife — go ask her , what does she need ?
Go home to your husband — what does he need ?
Go home and ask those questions , and then help the people around you .
And it &apos;s simple .
And why should we care about this ?
We talk about world peace .
How can we have world peace with different cultures , different languages ?
I think it starts household by household , under the same roof .
So , let &apos;s make it right in our own backyard .
And I want to thank all of you in the audience for being great husbands , great mothers , friends , daughters , sons .
And maybe somebody &apos;s never said that to you , but you &apos;ve done a really , really good job .
And thank you for being here , just showing up and changing the world with your ideas .
Thank you .
( Applause )
Actually , I come from Britain , but I &apos;ve been living in Maldives for 26 years now .
So , that &apos;s home really .
The Maldives , as I &apos;m sure you &apos;re aware , are a chain of islands off the southwest coast of India here .
Capital , Malé , where I live .
Actually , sitting here today in Mysore , we &apos;re closer to Malé than we are to Delhi , for example .
If you &apos;re in IT , India , obviously , is the place to be at the moment .
But if you &apos;re a marine biologist , Maldives is not such a bad place to be .
And it has been my home these years .
For those of you who &apos;ve been there , fantastic coral reefs , fantastic diving , fantastic snorkeling .
I spend as much of my time as possible investigating the marine life .
I study fish , also the bigger things , whales and dolphins .
This is a blue whale . We have blue whales in the waters around here , off Maldives , around the waters of India . You can see them off Kerala .
And , in fact , we &apos;re very lucky in this region .
One of the best places in the world to see blue whales is here in this region .
In Sri Lanka , if you go down to the south coast of Sri Lanka , during the northeast monsoon season , you can see blue whales very , very easily .
It &apos;s probably the best place in the world to see them .
Now , when I talk about the northeast monsoon season , I &apos;m sure many of you here know exactly what I mean , but perhaps some of you are not quite so sure .
I need to explain a little bit about monsoons .
Now , monsoon , the root of the word &quot; &quot; monsoon &quot; &quot; comes from the word &quot; &quot; season . &quot; &quot; So , it &apos;s just a season . And there are two seasons in most of South Asia .
And in the summer India heats up , gets very hot .
Hot air rises , and air is drawn in off the sea to replace it .
And the way it works is , it comes from the southwest .
It comes off the ocean here and is drawn up towards India .
So it comes from the southwest . It &apos;s a southwest monsoon .
Picks up moisture as it crosses the ocean .
That &apos;s what brings the monsoon rain .
And then in the winter things cool down .
High pressure builds over India .
And the whole system goes into reverse .
So , the wind is now coming from the northeast out of India , across the Indian Ocean , this way towards Africa .
Keep that in mind .
Now , I &apos;m a marine biologist , but I &apos;m actually a bit of an old fashioned naturalist , I suppose .
I &apos;m interested in all sorts of things , almost everything that moves , including dragonflies . And I &apos;m actually going to talk , this afternoon , about dragonflies .
This is a very beautiful species , it &apos;s called the Oriental Scarlet .
And one thing you need to know about dragonflies , one important thing , is that they lay their eggs in fresh water .
They need fresh water to breed .
They lay the eggs into fresh water .
Little larvae hatch out in fresh water .
They feed on other little things . They feed on mosquito larvae .
So , they &apos;re very important .
They control mosquito larvae , among other things .
And they grow and grow by stages . And they climb out of the water , burst out , as the adult which we see .
And typically , there is a lot of variation , but if you have a dragonfly with , say , a one year life cycle , which is quite typical , the larva , living in the fresh water , lives for 10 or 11 months .
And then the adult , which comes after , lives for one or two months .
So it &apos;s essentially a freshwater animal .
It really does need fresh water .
Now , the particular species of dragonfly I want to talk about is this one , because most dragonflies , like the one we &apos;ve just seen , when the adult is there for its brief one or two months of life , it doesn &apos;t go very far . It can &apos;t travel very far .
A few kilometers , maybe , is quite typical .
They are very good fliers , but they don &apos;t go too far .
But this guy is an exception .
And this is called the Globe Skimmer , or Wandering Glider .
And , as the name might suggest , it is found pretty much around the world .
It lives throughout the tropics , the Americas , Africa , Asia , Australia , into the Pacific .
And it wanders far and wide . We know that much about it .
But it really hasn &apos;t been studied very much .
It &apos;s a rather mediocre looking dragonfly .
If you &apos;re going to study dragonflies , you want to study those really bright beautiful ones , like that red one . Or the really rare ones , the endemic endangered ones .
This is , it seems a bit dull you know .
It &apos;s sort of dull-colored . And it &apos;s fairly common .
And it occurs everywhere — you know , why bother ?
But if you take that attitude , you &apos;re actually missing something rather special .
Because this dragonfly has a rather amazing story to tell .
And I feel very privileged to have stumbled across it living in the Maldives .
When I first went to the Maldives , dead keen on diving , spent as much of my time as I could in and under the water .
Didn &apos;t notice any dragonflies ; maybe they were there , maybe they weren &apos;t .
Didn &apos;t notice them .
But after some time , after some months , one day as I was going out and about , suddenly I noticed hundreds of dragonflies , hundreds of dragonflies .
Something like this , these are all this species Globe Skimmer .
I didn &apos;t know at the time , but I know now , they &apos;re Globe Skimmers , hundreds of them .
And they were there for some time . And then they were gone .
And I didn &apos;t think anything more of it until the following year , when it happened again , and then the year after that , and then the year after that .
And I was a bit slow , I didn &apos;t really take too much notice .
But I asked some Maldivian friends and colleagues , and yes they come every year .
And I asked people about them and yes , they knew , but they didn &apos;t know anything , where they came from , or anything .
And again I didn &apos;t think too much of it .
But slowly it began to dawn on me that something rather special was happening .
Because dragonflies need fresh water to breed .
And the Maldives , and I &apos;m sure some of you have been there — so here is home .
So , Maldives , beautiful place .
( Laughter ) It &apos;s built entirely of coral reefs .
And on top of the coral reefs are sand banks .
Average height , about that much above sea level .
So , global warming , sea level rise , it &apos;s a real serious issue .
But I &apos;m not going to talk about that .
Another important point of these sand banks is that when it rains , the rainwater soaks down into the soil . So , it &apos;s gone .
So , it stays under the soil .
The trees can put their roots into it .
Humans can dig holes and make a well .
But dragonflies — a bit tricky .
There is no surface fresh water .
There are no ponds , streams , rivers , lakes , nothing like that .
So , why is it that every year millions of dragonflies , millions , millions of dragonflies turn up ?
I got a little bit curious . In fact I &apos;ll stop here , because I want to ask , and there is a lot of people who , from India of course , people who grew up spending your childhood here .
Those of you who are Indian or spent your childhood here , let me have a show of hands , who of you — not yet , not yet !
You &apos;re too keen . You &apos;re too keen . No . Hang on . Hang on .
Wait for the go . I &apos;ll say go .
Those of you who grew up in India , do you remember in your childhood , dragonflies , swarms of dragonflies ? Maybe at school , maybe tying little bits of string onto them ?
Maybe pulling bits off ? I &apos;m not asking about that .
You &apos;ve only got to say , do you remember seeing lots of dragonflies .
Any hands ? Any hands ? Yes . Thank you . Thank you .
It &apos;s a widespread phenomenon throughout South Asia , including the Maldives .
And I got a bit curious about it .
In the Maldives — now , in India there is plenty of water , so , dragonflies , yeah , of course . Why not ?
But in Maldives , no fresh water . So , what on Earth is going on ?
And the first thing I did was started recording when they turned up in the Maldives .
And there is the answer , 21st of October .
Not every year , that &apos;s the average date .
So , I &apos;ve been writing it down for 15 years now .
You &apos;d think they &apos;re coming from India . It &apos;s the closest place .
But in October , remember , we &apos;re still in southwest monsoon , Maldives is still in the southwest monsoon .
But wind is , invariably , every time , is from the west .
It &apos;s going towards India , not from India .
So , are these things , how are these things getting here ?
Are they coming from India against the wind ?
Seemed a bit unlikely .
So , next thing I did is I got on the phone .
Maldives is a long archipelago .
It stretches about 500 miles , of course it &apos;s India here .
I got on the phone and emailed to friends and colleagues .
When do you see the dragonflies appear ?
And pretty soon , a picture started emerging .
In Bangalore , a colleague there sent me information for three years , average , 24th of September , so late September .
Down in Trivandrum , a bit later .
Far north of Maldives , a bit later .
Then Malé , then further south .
And then the southernmost Maldives .
It &apos;s pretty obvious , they &apos;re coming from India .
But they are coming 400 miles across the ocean , against the wind .
How on Earth are they doing that ?
I didn &apos;t know .
The next thing I did was I started counting dragonflies .
I wanted to know about their seasonality , what time of year , this is when they first arrive , but how long are they around for ? Does that give any clues ?
So , I started a very rigorous scientific process .
I had a rigorous scientific transect .
I got on my bicycle , and I cycled around the island of Malé .
It &apos;s about five kilometers around , counting the dragonflies as I go , trying not to bump into people as I &apos;m looking in the trees .
And they &apos;re here for a very short time , October , November , December . That &apos;s it .
And then they tail off , there &apos;s a few , but that &apos;s it .
October , November , December . That is not the northeast monsoon season .
That &apos;s not the southwest season .
That &apos;s the inter-monsoon , the time when the monsoon changes .
Now , what I said was , you get the southwest monsoon going one way , and then it changes and you get the northeast monsoon going the other way .
And that sort of gives the impression you &apos;ve got one air mass going up and down , up and down . It doesn &apos;t work like that .
What happens , actually , is there is two air masses .
And there is a front between them , and the front moves .
So , if you &apos;ve got India here , when the front is up above India you &apos;re into the southwest monsoon .
Then the front moves into the northeast monsoon .
And that front in the middle is not vertical , it &apos;s at an angle .
So , as it comes over towards Malé I &apos;m standing in Malé underneath the front .
I can be in the southwest monsoon .
But the wind above is from the northeast monsoon .
So , the dragonflies are actually coming from India on the northeast monsoon , but at an altitude at 1,000 to 2,000 meters up in the air . Incredible .
These little insects , it &apos;s the same ones we see out here &#91; in India &#93; , two inches long , five centimeters long , flying in their millions , 400 miles across the ocean , at 2,000 meters up . Quite incredible .
So , I was quite pleased with myself . I thought wow , I &apos;ve tracked this one , I know how they come here . Then I scratched my head a bit , and that &apos;s okay , I know how they come here , but why do they come here ?
What are millions of dragonflies doing , flying out over the ocean every year to their apparent doom ?
It doesn &apos;t make sense . There is nothing for them in Maldives .
What on Earth are they doing ?
Well , to cut a long story short , they &apos;re actually flying right across the ocean .
They &apos;re making it all the way across to East Africa .
I know that because I have friends who work on fisheries &apos; research vessels who have sent to me reports from boats out in the ocean .
I know because we have reports from Seychelles , which fit in as well , down here .
And I know because when you look at the rainfall , these particular insects , these Globe Skimmers breed in temporary rain water pools .
Okay , they lay their eggs where the seasonal rains are , the monsoon rains .
The larvae have to develop very quickly .
They only take six weeks . Instead of 11 months , they &apos;re six weeks .
They &apos;re up , and they &apos;re off .
Now , here we have , in case you can &apos;t read at the back , the top is rainfall for India .
And we &apos;re starting in June . So this is the monsoon rain .
By September , October , it &apos;s drying out .
Nothing for these dragonflies . There is no more seasonal rain .
They &apos;ve got to go hunting for seasonal rain .
And they fly south . As the monsoon withdraws to the south they come down through Karnataka , into Kerala .
And then they run out of land .
But they are incredibly good fliers . This particular species , it can fly for thousands of kilometers .
And it just keeps going . And the wind , the northeast wind swooshes it around and carries it off across the ocean to Africa , where it &apos;s raining .
And they are breeding in the rains of Africa .
Now , this is southeast Africa . It makes it look like there are sort of two breeding periods here . It &apos;s slightly more complicated than that .
What &apos;s happening is they are breeding in the monsoon rains here .
And the dragonflies you can see today outside here , on the campus , are the young of this generation .
They hatched out in India .
They &apos;re looking for somewhere to breed . If it rains here they &apos;ll breed .
But most of them are going to carry on . And next stop , perhaps only four or five days away is going to be East Africa .
The wind will swoosh them out across here .
If they pass the Maldives they might go and have a look , nothing there , they &apos;ll carry on .
Here , here , Kenya , East Africa , they &apos;ve actually just come out of a long drought .
Just last week the rains broke . The short rains broke and it &apos;s raining there now .
And the dragonflies are there . I have reports from my various contacts .
The dragonflies are here now . They &apos;re breeding there .
When those guys , they &apos;ll lay their eggs now .
They &apos;ll hatch out in six weeks . By that time the seasonal rains have moved on . It &apos;s not there , it &apos;s down here .
They &apos;ll fly down here . And the clever thing is the wind is always converging to where the rain is .
The rain occurs , these are summer rains .
This is a summer monsoon .
The sun is overhead there . Summer rains in southern Africa .
The sun is overhead , maximum heating , maximum evaporation , maximum clouds , maximum rainfall , maximum opportunities for reproduction .
Not only that , because you have this convection , you have this rising of the air where it &apos;s hot , air is drawn in .
There &apos;s a convergence . So , wherever the rain is falling , the air is drawn towards it to replace the air that &apos;s rising .
So , the little fellow that hatches out here , he gets up into the air , he is automatically carried to where the rain is falling .
Lay their eggs , next generation , they come up , automatically carried to where the rain is falling .
It &apos;s now back there . They come out , it &apos;s time to come back .
So , in four generations , one , two , three , four and then back .
A complete circuit of the Indian Ocean .
This is a circuit of about 16,000 kilometers .
16,000 kilometers , four generations , mind you , for a two inch long insect . It &apos;s quite incredible .
Those of you from North America will be familiar with the Monarch butterfly .
Which , up until now has had the longest known insect migration .
It &apos;s only half the length of this one .
And this crossing here , of the ocean , is the only truly regular transoceanic crossing of any insect .
A quite incredible feat .
And I only stumbled on this because I was living in Malé , in Maldives for long enough for it to percolate into my brain that something rather special was going on .
But dragonflies are not the only creatures that make the crossing .
There is more to the story .
I &apos;m also interested in birds . And I &apos;m familiar with this fellow . This is a rather special bird .
It &apos;s a falcon . It &apos;s called the eastern red-footed falcon , obviously .
But it &apos;s also called the Amur Falcon .
And it &apos;s called the Amur Falcon because it breeds in Amurland .
Which is an area along the Amur River , which is up here .
It &apos;s the border , much of it is the border between China and Russia , up here in the far east .
So , Siberia , Manchuria .
And that &apos;s where it breeds .
And if you &apos;re a falcon it &apos;s quite a nice place to be in the summer .
But it &apos;s a pretty miserable place to be in the winter .
It &apos;s , well , you can imagine .
So , as any sensible bird would do , he moves south . They move south . The whole population moves south .
But then the being sensible stopped .
So , now they don &apos;t stop here , or even down here .
No , they turn across here .
They have a little refueling stop in northeastern India .
They come to the latitude of about Mumbai or Goa .
And then they strike out across the ocean , down to Kenya .
And down here , and they winter down here &#91; in southern Africa &#93; .
Incredible . This is the most extraordinary migration of any bird of prey . A quite incredible migration .
And they are not the only one that makes the crossing .
They have the most incredible journey , but several make the crossing from India to Africa . Includes this one , the hobby .
This fellow is a very nice bird , this is the Pied cuckoo .
Those of you from northern India will be familiar with this .
It comes with the monsoons .
This time of year they cross back to Africa .
And this guy , the roller , a rather beautiful bird .
It &apos;s known as the Eurasian Roller . In India it occurs in the northwest , so it &apos;s known as the Kashmir Roller .
And these birds , what I &apos;ve done is I &apos;ve complied all the records , all the available records of these birds , put them together , and found out they migrate at exactly the same time as the dragonflies .
They make use of exactly the same winds .
They travel at exactly the same time with the same winds to make the crossing . I know they travel at the same altitude .
It &apos;s known about the Amur Falcon . This guy , unfortunately , one of these met an unfortunate end .
He was flying off the coast of Goa , 21 years ago , 1988 . October , 1988 .
An Indian Navy jet was flying off Goa , bang ! In the middle of the night . Fortunately , a two engine jet got back to base , and they pulled the remains of one of these &#91; Eurasian Rollers &#93; out .
Flying at night over the Indian Ocean 2,424 meters .
Same height as the dragonflies go .
So , they are using the same winds .
And the other thing , the other important factor for all these birds , all medium sized fellows , and this includes the next slide as well , which is a bee-eater .
Bee-eaters eat bees . This one has a nice blue cheek .
It &apos;s a Blue-cheeked Bee-eater .
And every one of these birds that makes the crossing from India to East Africa eats insects , large insects , the size of dragonflies . Thank you very much .
( Applause )
And so , needless to say , over those years I &apos;ve had a chance to look at education reform from a lot of perspectives .
Some of those reforms have been good .
And we know why kids drop out .
We know why kids don &apos;t learn .
It &apos;s either poverty , low attendance , negative peer influences ...
But one of the things that we never discuss or we rarely discuss is the value and importance of human connection .
George Washington Carver says all learning is understanding relationships .
Everyone in this room has been affected by a teacher or an adult .
I have looked at the best and I &apos;ve looked at some of the worst .
A colleague said to me one time , &quot; &quot; They don &apos;t pay me to like the kids .
I should teach it , they should learn it , Case closed . &quot; &quot; Well , I said to her , &quot; You know , kids don &apos;t learn from people they don &apos;t like . &quot;
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) She said , &quot; &quot; That &apos;s just a bunch of hooey . &quot; &quot; And I said to her , &quot; Well , your year is going to be long and arduous , dear . &quot;
Needless to say , it was .
He said you ought to just throw in a few simple things , like seeking first to understand , as opposed to being understood .
You ever thought about that ?
( Laughter ) I taught a lesson once on ratios .
I taught the whole lesson wrong . I &apos;m so sorry . &quot; &quot; They said , &quot; &quot; That &apos;s okay , Ms. Pierson .
You were so excited , we just let you go . &quot; &quot; I have had classes that were so low , so academically deficient , that I cried .
How do I raise the self-esteem of a child and his academic achievement at the same time ?
I told all my students , &quot; &quot; You were chosen to be in my class because I am the best teacher and you are the best students , they put us all together so we could show everybody else how to do it . &quot; &quot; One of the students said , &quot; &quot; Really ? &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) I said , &quot; &quot; Really . We have to show the other classes how to do it , so when we walk down the hall , people will notice us , so you can &apos;t make noise .
You just have to strut . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) And I gave them a saying to say : &quot; &quot; I am somebody .
I am powerful , and I am strong .
I deserve the education that I get here .
I have things to do , people to impress , and places to go . &quot; &quot; And they said , &quot; &quot; Yeah ! &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) You say it long enough , it starts to be a part of you .
( Laughter ) He said , &quot; &quot; Ms. Pierson , is this an F ? &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; Yes . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) He said , &quot; &quot; Then why &apos;d you put a smiley face ? &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; Because you &apos;re on a roll .
You got two right . You didn &apos;t miss them all . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) I said , &quot; &quot; And when we review this , won &apos;t you do better ? &quot; &quot; He said , &quot; &quot; Yes , ma &apos;am , I can do better . &quot; &quot; You see , &quot; &quot; -18 &quot; &quot; sucks all the life out of you .
&quot; + 2 &quot; said , &quot; I ain &apos;t all bad . &quot;
For years , I watched my mother take the time at recess to review , go on home visits in the afternoon , buy combs and brushes and peanut butter and crackers to put in her desk drawer for kids that needed to eat , and a washcloth and some soap for the kids who didn &apos;t smell so good .
( Laughter ) And kids can be cruel .
And so she kept those things in her desk , and years later , after she retired , I watched some of those same kids come through and say to her , &quot; &quot; You know , Ms. Walker , you made a difference in my life .
You made me feel like I was somebody , when I knew , at the bottom , I wasn &apos;t .
And I want you to just see what I &apos;ve become . &quot; &quot; And when my mama died two years ago at 92 , there were so many former students at her funeral , it brought tears to my eyes , not because she was gone , but because she left a legacy of relationships that could never disappear .
Can we stand to have more relationships ?
Never .
You won &apos;t like them all , and the tough ones show up for a reason .
It &apos;s the connection . It &apos;s the relationships .
So teachers become great actors and great actresses , and we come to work when we don &apos;t feel like it , and we &apos;re listening to policy that doesn &apos;t make sense , and we teach anyway .
We teach anyway , because that &apos;s what we do .
Teaching and learning should bring joy .
How powerful would our world be if we had kids who were not afraid to take risks , who were not afraid to think , and who had a champion ?
Every child deserves a champion , an adult who will never give up on them , who understands the power of connection , and insists that they become the best that they can possibly be .
We &apos;re born to make a difference .
Thank you so much .
( Applause )
Doesn &apos;t it feel good to say it out loud ?
1926 : Kurt Lewin , founder of social psychology , called this &quot; &quot; substitution . &quot; &quot; 1933 : Wera Mahler found when it was acknowledged by others , it felt real in the mind .
1982 , Peter Gollwitzer wrote a whole book about this , and in 2009 , he did some new tests that were published .
Now , those who kept their mouths shut worked the entire 45 minutes on average , and when asked afterward , said that they felt that they had a long way to go still to achieve their goal .
But those who had announced it quit after only 33 minutes , on average , and when asked afterward , said that they felt much closer to achieving their goal .
You can delay the gratification that the social acknowledgment brings , and you can understand that your mind mistakes the talking for the doing .
( Laughter ) ( Applause )
What you &apos;re doing , right now , at this very moment , is killing you .
More than cars or the Internet or even that little mobile device we keep talking about , the technology you &apos;re using the most almost every day is this , your tush .
Nowadays people are sitting 9.3 hours a day , which is more than we &apos;re sleeping , at 7.7 hours .
Sitting is so incredibly prevalent , we don &apos;t even question how much we &apos;re doing it , and because everyone else is doing it , it doesn &apos;t even occur to us that it &apos;s not okay .
In that way , sitting has become the smoking of our generation .
Of course there &apos;s health consequences to this , scary ones , besides the waist .
Things like breast cancer and colon cancer are directly tied to our lack of physical &#91; activity &#93; , Ten percent in fact , on both of those .
Six percent for heart disease , seven percent for type 2 diabetes , which is what my father died of .
Now , any of those stats should convince each of us to get off our duff more , but if you &apos;re anything like me , it won &apos;t .
What did get me moving was a social interaction .
Someone invited me to a meeting , but couldn &apos;t manage to fit me in to a regular sort of conference room meeting , and said , &quot; I have to walk my dogs tomorrow . Could you come then ? &quot;
It seemed kind of odd to do , and actually , that first meeting , I remember thinking , &quot; I have to be the one to ask the next question , &quot; because I knew I was going to huff and puff during this conversation .
And yet , I &apos;ve taken that idea and made it my own .
So instead of going to coffee meetings or fluorescent-lit conference room meetings , I ask people to go on a walking meeting , to the tune of 20 to 30 miles a week .
It &apos;s changed my life .
But before that , what actually happened was , I used to think about it as , you could take care of your health , or you could take care of obligations , and one always came at the cost of the other .
So now , several hundred of these walking meetings later , I &apos;ve learned a few things .
First , there &apos;s this amazing thing about actually getting out of the box that leads to out-of-the-box thinking .
Whether it &apos;s nature or the exercise itself , it certainly works .
And second , and probably the more reflective one , is just about how much each of us can hold problems in opposition when they &apos;re really not that way .
And if we &apos;re going to solve problems and look at the world really differently , whether it &apos;s in governance or business or environmental issues , job creation , maybe we can think about how to reframe those problems as having both things be true .
Because it was when that happened with this walk-and-talk idea that things became doable and sustainable and viable .
So I started this talk talking about the tush , so I &apos;ll end with the bottom line , which is , walk and talk .
Walk the talk .
You &apos;ll be surprised at how fresh air drives fresh thinking , and in the way that you do , you &apos;ll bring into your life an entirely new set of ideas .
Thank you .
( Applause )
And I started in our medical university , Karolinska Institute , an undergraduate course called Global Health .
And one of the questions from which I learned a lot was this one : &quot; Which country has the highest child mortality of these five pairs ? &quot;
And these were the results of the Swedish students .
That means that there was a place for a professor of international health and for my course .
( Laughter ) But one late night , when I was compiling the report , I really realized my discovery .
( Laughter ) Because the chimpanzee would score half right if I gave them two bananas with Sri Lanka and Turkey .
Because my students , what they said when they looked upon the world , and I asked them , &quot; What do you really think about the world ? &quot;
We have very good data since 1962 — 1960 about — on the size of families in all countries .
And 1962 , there was really a group of countries here that was industrialized countries , and they had small families and long lives .
They move up into that corner .
And in the &apos; 90s , we have the terrible HIV epidemic that takes down the life expectancy of the African countries and all the rest of them move up into the corner , where we have long lives and small family , and we have a completely new world .
( Applause ) ( Applause ends ) Let me make a comparison directly between the United States of America and Vietnam .
And this is what happens : the data during the war indicate that even with all the death , there was an improvement of life expectancy .
If we don &apos;t look in the data , I think we all underestimate the tremendous change in Asia , which was in social change before we saw the economical change .
Let &apos;s move over to another way here in which we could display the distribution in the world of the income .
And if we look where the income ends up , this is 100 percent the world &apos;s annual income .
We think about aid , like these people here giving aid to these people here .
And if I now let the world move forward , you will see that while population increases , there are hundreds of millions in Asia getting out of poverty and some others getting into poverty , and this is the pattern we have today .
And you have the OECD there , and you have sub-Saharan Africa there , and we take off the Arab states there , coming both from Africa and from Asia , and we put them separately , and we can expand this axis , and I can give it a new dimension here , by adding the social values there , child survival .
And when it burst , the size of its country bubble is the size of the population .
Here in Uganda , development aid .
I can split South Asia here . India &apos;s the big bubble in the middle .
But a huge difference between Afghanistan and Sri Lanka .
There is an uncertainty margin , but we can see the difference here : Cambodia , Singapore .
This is Mao Tse-tung . He brought health to China .
And if we move back again , here , and we put on trails on them , like this , you can see again that the speed of development is very , very different , and the countries are moving more or less in the same rate as money and health , but it seems you can move much faster if you are healthy first than if you are wealthy first .
And to show that , you can put on the way of United Arab Emirates .
They came from here , a mineral country .
So we &apos;ve got a much more mainstream appearance of the world , where all countries tend to use their money better than they used in the past .
If I split Uganda , there &apos;s quite a difference within Uganda .
Everything in this world exists in Africa .
Because the data is hidden down in the databases .
All that information we saw changing in the world does not include publicly-funded statistics .
There are some web pages like this , you know , but they take some nourishment down from the databases , but people put prices on them , stupid passwords and boring statistics .
( Laughter ) And this won &apos;t work .
Some countries accept that their databases can go out on the world , but what we really need is , of course , a search function .
A search function where we can copy the data up to a searchable format and get it out in the world .
He only says , &quot; &quot; We can &apos;t do it . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) And that &apos;s a quite clever guy , huh ? ( Laughter )
So we can see a lot happening in data in the coming years .
We will be able to look at income distributions in completely new ways .
This is the income distribution of the United States , 1970 .
Almost like a ghost , isn &apos;t it ?
( Laughter ) It &apos;s pretty scary . ( Laughter )
And instead of looking at this , I would like to end up by showing the Internet users per 1,000 .
It takes some time to change for this , but on the axises , you can quite easily get any variable you would like to have .
And the thing would be to get up the databases free , to get them searchable , and with a second click , to get them into the graphic formats , where you can instantly understand them .
Now , statisticians don &apos;t like it , because they say that this will not show the reality ; we have to have statistical , analytical methods .
I end now with the world .
( Applause )
My title : &quot; &quot; Queerer than we can suppose : the strangeness of science . &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; Queerer than we can suppose &quot; &quot; comes from J.B.S. Haldane , the famous biologist , who said , &quot; &quot; Now , my own suspicion is that the universe is not only queerer than we suppose , but queerer than we can suppose .
David Deutsch , who &apos;s talking here , in &quot; &quot; The Fabric of Reality , &quot; &quot; embraces the many-worlds interpretation of quantum theory , because the worst that you can say about it is that it &apos;s preposterously wasteful .
And of course , there &apos;s nothing special about Cromwell or bladders — you have just breathed in a nitrogen atom that passed through the right lung of the third iguanodon to the left of the tall cycad tree .
But it &apos;s worth recalling Wittgenstein &apos;s remark on the subject : &quot; &quot; Tell me , &quot; &quot; he asked a friend , &quot; &quot; why do people always say it was natural for man to assume that the Sun went &apos; round the Earth , rather than that the Earth was rotating ? &quot; &quot; And his friend replied , &quot; &quot; Well , obviously , because it just looks as though the Sun is going round the Earth . &quot; &quot; Wittgenstein replied , &quot; &quot; Well , what would it have looked like if it had looked as though the Earth was rotating ? &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Science has taught us , against all intuition , that apparently solid things , like crystals and rocks , are really almost entirely composed of empty space .
As an evolutionary biologist , I &apos;d say this : our brains have evolved to help us survive within the orders of magnitude , of size and speed which our bodies operate at .
Rocks feel hard and impenetrable to our hands , precisely because objects like rocks and hands cannot penetrate each other .
It &apos;s therefore useful for our brains to construct notions like &quot; &quot; solidity &quot; &quot; and &quot; &quot; impenetrability , &quot; &quot; because such notions help us to navigate our bodies through the middle-sized world in which we have to navigate .
( Laughter ) We are evolved denizens of Middle World , and that limits what we are capable of imagining .
We find it intuitively easy to grasp ideas like , when a rabbit moves at the sort of medium velocity at which rabbits and other Middle World objects move , and hits another Middle World object like a rock , it knocks itself out .
A whirlpool , for Steve Grand , is a thing with just as much reality as a rock .
It &apos;s what &apos;s technically known as a &quot; &quot; barchan , &quot; &quot; and the entire dune walks across the desert in a westerly direction at a speed of about 17 meters per year .
If a neutrino had a brain , which it evolved in neutrino-sized ancestors , it would say that rocks really do consist of empty space .
A flying animal needs a different kind of model from a walking , climbing or swimming animal .
The fact that the bat uses echoes in pitch darkness to input the current variables to its model , while the swallow uses light , is incidental .
Middle World is the narrow range of reality which we judge to be normal , as opposed to the queerness of the very small , the very large and the very fast .
We could make a similar scale of improbabilities ; nothing is totally impossible .
Because there are so many of them , and because there &apos;s no agreement among them in their preferred direction of movement , the marble , as we see it in Middle World , stays rock steady .
Could we , by training and practice , emancipate ourselves from Middle World and achieve some sort of intuitive as well as mathematical understanding of the very small and the very large ?
I wonder whether we might help ourselves to understand , say , quantum theory , if we brought up children to play computer games beginning in early childhood , which had a make-believe world of balls going through two slits on a screen , a world in which the strange goings-on of quantum mechanics were enlarged by the computer &apos;s make-believe , so that they became familiar on the Middle-World scale of the stream .
What we say — and I include the most austerely mechanistic among us , which is probably me — what we say is , &quot; &quot; Vile monster , prison is too good for you . &quot; &quot; Or worse , we seek revenge , in all probability thereby triggering the next phase in an escalating cycle of counter-revenge , which we see , of course , all over the world today .
The economically useful way to model a person is to treat him as a purposeful , goal-seeking agent with pleasures and pains , desires and intentions , guilt , blame-worthiness .
Personification and the imputing of intentional purpose is such a brilliantly successful way to model humans , it &apos;s hardly surprising the same modeling software often seizes control when we &apos;re trying to think about entities for which it &apos;s not appropriate , like Basil Fawlty with his car or like millions of deluded people , with the universe as a whole .
( Laughter ) If the universe is queerer than we can suppose , is it just because we &apos;ve been naturally selected to suppose only what we needed to suppose in order to survive in the Pleistocene of Africa ?
I &apos;m a tourism entrepreneur and a peacebuilder , but this is not how I started .
When I was seven years old , I remember watching television and seeing people throwing rocks , and thinking , this must be a fun thing to do .
So I got out to the street and threw rocks , not realizing I was supposed to throw rocks at Israeli cars .
Instead , I ended up stoning my neighbors &apos; cars . ( Laughter ) They were not enthusiastic about my patriotism .
This is my picture with my brother .
This is me , the little one , and I know what you &apos;re thinking : &quot; You used to look cute , what the heck happened to you ? &quot;
But my brother , who is older than me , was arrested when he was 18 , taken to prison on charges of throwing stones .
He was beaten up when he refused to confess that he threw stones , and as a result , had internal injuries that caused his death soon after he was released from prison .
I was angry , I was bitter , and all I wanted was revenge .
But that changed when I was 18 .
I decided that I needed Hebrew to get a job , and going to study Hebrew in that classroom was the first time I ever met Jews who were not soldiers .
And we connected over really small things , like the fact that I love country music , which is really strange for Palestinians .
But it was then that I realized also that we have a wall of anger , of hatred and of ignorance that separates us .
I decided that it doesn &apos;t matter what happens to me .
What really matters is how I deal with it .
And therefore , I decided to dedicate my life to bringing down the walls that separate people .
I do so through many ways .
Tourism is one of them , but also media and education , and you might be wondering , really , can tourism change things ?
Can it bring down walls ? Yes .
Tourism is the best sustainable way to bring down those walls and to create a sustainable way of connecting with each other and creating friendships .
In 2009 , I cofounded Mejdi Tours , a social enterprise that aims to connect people , with two Jewish friends , by the way , and what we &apos;ll do , the model we did , for example , in Jerusalem , we would have two tour guides , one Israeli and one Palestinian , guiding the trips together , telling history and narrative and archaeology and conflict from totally different perspectives .
I remember running a trip together with a friend named Kobi — Jewish congregation from Chicago , the trip was in Jerusalem — and we took them to a refugee camp , a Palestinian refugee camp , and there we had this amazing food .
By the way , this is my mother . She &apos;s cool .
And that &apos;s the Palestinian food called maqluba .
It means &quot; &quot; upside-down . &quot; &quot; You cook it with rice and chicken , and you flip it upside-down .
It &apos;s the best meal ever .
And we &apos;ll eat together .
Then we had a joint band , Israeli and Palestinian musicians , and we did some belly-dancing .
If you don &apos;t know any , I &apos;ll teach you later .
But when we left , both sides , they were crying because they did not want to leave .
Three years later , those relationships still exist .
Imagine with me if the one billion people who travel internationally every year travel like this , not being taken in the bus from one side to another , from one hotel to another , taking pictures from the windows of their buses of people and cultures , but actually connecting with people .
You know , I remember having a Muslim group from the U.K.
going to the house of an Orthodox Jewish family , and having their first Friday night dinners , that Sabbath dinner , and eating together hamin , which is a Jewish food , a stew , just having the connection of realizing , after a while , that a hundred years ago , their families came out of the same place in Northern Africa .
This is not a photo profile for your Facebook .
This is not disaster tourism .
This is the future of travel , and I invite you to join me to do that , to change your travel .
We &apos;re doing it all over the world now , from Ireland to Iran to Turkey , and we see ourselves going everywhere to change the world .
Thank you .
( Applause )
I wrote a letter last week talking about the work of the foundation , sharing some of the problems .
And Warren Buffet had recommended I do that — being honest about what was going well , what wasn &apos;t , and making it kind of an annual thing .
A goal I had there was to draw more people in to work on those problems , because I think there are some very important problems that don &apos;t get worked on naturally .
That is , the market does not drive the scientists , the communicators , the thinkers , the governments to do the right things .
And only by paying attention to these things and having brilliant people who care and draw other people in can we make as much progress as we need to .
So this morning I &apos;m going to share two of these problems and talk about where they stand .
But before I dive into those I want to admit that I am an optimist .
Any tough problem , I think it can be solved .
And part of the reason I feel that way is looking at the past .
Over the past century , average lifespan has more than doubled .
Another statistic , perhaps my favorite , is to look at childhood deaths .
As recently as 1960 , 110 million children were born , and 20 million of those died before the age of five .
Five years ago , 135 million children were born — so , more — and less than 10 million of them died before the age of five .
So that &apos;s a factor of two reduction of the childhood death rate .
It &apos;s a phenomenal thing .
Each one of those lives matters a lot .
And the key reason we were able to it was not only rising incomes but also a few key breakthroughs : vaccines that were used more widely .
For example , measles was four million of the deaths back as recently as 1990 and now is under 400,000 .
So we really can make changes .
The next breakthrough is to cut that 10 million in half again .
And I think that &apos;s doable in well under 20 years .
Why ? Well there &apos;s only a few diseases that account for the vast majority of those deaths : diarrhea , pneumonia and malaria .
So that brings us to the first problem that I &apos;ll raise this morning , which is how do we stop a deadly disease that &apos;s spread by mosquitos ?
Well , what &apos;s the history of this disease ?
It &apos;s been a severe disease for thousands of years .
In fact , if we look at the genetic code , it &apos;s the only disease we can see that people who lived in Africa actually evolved several things to avoid malarial deaths .
Deaths actually peaked at a bit over five million in the 1930s .
So it was absolutely gigantic .
And the disease was all over the world .
A terrible disease . It was in the United States . It was in Europe .
People didn &apos;t know what caused it until the early 1900s , when a British military man figured out that it was mosquitos .
So it was everywhere .
And two tools helped bring the death rate down .
One was killing the mosquitos with DDT .
The other was treating the patients with quinine , or quinine derivatives .
And so that &apos;s why the death rate did come down .
Now , ironically , what happened was it was eliminated from all the temperate zones , which is where the rich countries are .
So we can see : 1900 , it &apos;s everywhere .
1945 , it &apos;s still most places .
1970 , the U.S. and most of Europe have gotten rid of it .
1990 , you &apos;ve gotten most of the northern areas .
And more recently you can see it &apos;s just around the equator .
And so this leads to the paradox that because the disease is only in the poorer countries , it doesn &apos;t get much investment .
For example , there &apos;s more money put into baldness drugs than are put into malaria .
Now , baldness , it &apos;s a terrible thing .
( Laughter ) And rich men are afflicted .
And so that &apos;s why that priority has been set .
But , malaria — even the million deaths a year caused by malaria greatly understate its impact .
Over 200 million people at any one time are suffering from it .
It means that you can &apos;t get the economies in these areas going because it just holds things back so much .
Now , malaria is of course transmitted by mosquitos .
I brought some here , just so you could experience this .
We &apos;ll let those roam around the auditorium a little bit .
( Laughter ) There &apos;s no reason only poor people should have the experience .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Those mosquitos are not infected .
So we &apos;ve come up with a few new things . We &apos;ve got bed nets .
And bed nets are a great tool .
What it means is the mother and child stay under the bed net at night , so the mosquitos that bite late at night can &apos;t get at them .
And when you use indoor spraying with DDT and those nets you can cut deaths by over 50 percent .
And that &apos;s happened now in a number of countries .
It &apos;s great to see .
But we have to be careful because malaria — the parasite evolves and the mosquito evolves .
So every tool that we &apos;ve ever had in the past has eventually become ineffective .
And so you end up with two choices .
If you go into a country with the right tools and the right way , you do it vigorously , you can actually get a local eradication .
And that &apos;s where we saw the malaria map shrinking .
Or , if you go in kind of half-heartedly , for a period of time you &apos;ll reduce the disease burden , but eventually those tools will become ineffective , and the death rate will soar back up again .
And the world has gone through this where it paid attention and then didn &apos;t pay attention .
Now we &apos;re on the upswing .
Bed net funding is up .
There &apos;s new drug discovery going on .
Our foundation has backed a vaccine that &apos;s going into phase three trial that starts in a couple months .
And that should save over two thirds of the lives if it &apos;s effective .
So we &apos;re going to have these new tools .
But that alone doesn &apos;t give us the road map .
Because the road map to get rid of this disease involves many things .
It involves communicators to keep the funding high , to keep the visibility high , to tell the success stories .
It involves social scientists , so we know how to get not just 70 percent of the people to use the bed nets , but 90 percent .
We need mathematicians to come in and simulate this , to do Monte Carlo things to understand how these tools combine and work together .
Of course we need drug companies to give us their expertise .
We need rich-world governments to be very generous in providing aid for these things .
And so as these elements come together , I &apos;m quite optimistic that we will be able to eradicate malaria .
Now let me turn to a second question , a fairly different question , but I &apos;d say equally important .
And this is : How do you make a teacher great ?
It seems like the kind of question that people would spend a lot of time on , and we &apos;d understand very well .
And the answer is , really , that we don &apos;t .
Let &apos;s start with why this is important .
Well , all of us here , I &apos;ll bet , had some great teachers .
We all had a wonderful education .
That &apos;s part of the reason we &apos;re here today , part of the reason we &apos;re successful .
I can say that , even though I &apos;m a college drop-out .
I had great teachers .
In fact , in the United States , the teaching system has worked fairly well .
There are fairly effective teachers in a narrow set of places .
So the top 20 percent of students have gotten a good education .
And those top 20 percent have been the best in the world , if you measure them against the other top 20 percent .
And they &apos;ve gone on to create the revolutions in software and biotechnology and keep the U.S. at the forefront .
Now , the strength for those top 20 percent is starting to fade on a relative basis , but even more concerning is the education that the balance of people are getting .
Not only has that been weak. it &apos;s getting weaker .
And if you look at the economy , it really is only providing opportunities now to people with a better education .
And we have to change this .
We have to change it so that people have equal opportunity .
We have to change it so that the country is strong and stays at the forefront of things that are driven by advanced education , like science and mathematics .
When I first learned the statistics , I was pretty stunned at how bad things are .
Over 30 percent of kids never finish high school .
And that had been covered up for a long time because they always took the dropout rate as the number who started in senior year and compared it to the number who finished senior year .
Because they weren &apos;t tracking where the kids were before that .
But most of the dropouts had taken place before that .
They had to raise the stated dropout rate as soon as that tracking was done to over 30 percent .
For minority kids , it &apos;s over 50 percent .
And even if you graduate from high school , if you &apos;re low-income , you have less than a 25 percent chance of ever completing a college degree .
If you &apos;re low-income in the United States , you have a higher chance of going to jail than you do of getting a four-year degree .
And that doesn &apos;t seem entirely fair .
So , how do you make education better ?
Now , our foundation , for the last nine years , has invested in this .
There &apos;s many people working on it .
We &apos;ve worked on small schools , we &apos;ve funded scholarships , we &apos;ve done things in libraries .
A lot of these things had a good effect .
But the more we looked at it , the more we realized that having great teachers was the very key thing .
And we hooked up with some people studying how much variation is there between teachers , between , say , the top quartile — the very best — and the bottom quartile .
How much variation is there within a school or between schools ?
And the answer is that these variations are absolutely unbelievable .
A top quartile teacher will increase the performance of their class — based on test scores — by over 10 percent in a single year .
What does that mean ?
That means that if the entire U.S. , for two years , had top quartile teachers , the entire difference between us and Asia would go away .
Within four years we would be blowing everyone in the world away .
So , it &apos;s simple . All you need are those top quartile teachers .
And so you &apos;d say , &quot; &quot; Wow , we should reward those people .
We should retain those people .
We should find out what they &apos;re doing and transfer that skill to other people . &quot; &quot; But I can tell you that absolutely is not happening today .
What are the characteristics of this top quartile ?
What do they look like ?
You might think these must be very senior teachers .
And the answer is no .
Once somebody has taught for three years their teaching quality does not change thereafter .
The variation is very , very small .
You might think these are people with master &apos;s degrees .
They &apos;ve gone back and they &apos;ve gotten their Master &apos;s of Education .
This chart takes four different factors and says how much do they explain teaching quality .
That bottom thing , which says there &apos;s no effect at all , is a master &apos;s degree .
Now , the way the pay system works is there &apos;s two things that are rewarded .
One is seniority .
Because your pay goes up and you vest into your pension .
The second is giving extra money to people who get their master &apos;s degree .
But it in no way is associated with being a better teacher .
Teach for America : slight effect .
For math teachers majoring in math there &apos;s a measurable effect .
But , overwhelmingly , it &apos;s your past performance .
There are some people who are very good at this .
And we &apos;ve done almost nothing to study what that is and to draw it in and to replicate it , to raise the average capability — or to encourage the people with it to stay in the system .
You might say , &quot; &quot; Do the good teachers stay and the bad teacher &apos;s leave ? &quot; &quot; The answer is , on average , the slightly better teachers leave the system .
And it &apos;s a system with very high turnover .
Now , there are a few places — very few — where great teachers are being made .
A good example of one is a set of charter schools called KIPP .
KIPP means Knowledge Is Power .
It &apos;s an unbelievable thing .
They have 66 schools — mostly middle schools , some high schools — and what goes on is great teaching .
They take the poorest kids , and over 96 percent of their high school graduates go to four-year colleges .
And the whole spirit and attitude in those schools is very different than in the normal public schools .
They &apos;re team teaching . They &apos;re constantly improving their teachers .
They &apos;re taking data , the test scores , and saying to a teacher , &quot; &quot; Hey , you caused this amount of increase . &quot; &quot; They &apos;re deeply engaged in making teaching better .
When you actually go and sit in one of these classrooms , at first it &apos;s very bizarre .
I sat down and I thought , &quot; &quot; What is going on ? &quot; &quot; The teacher was running around , and the energy level was high .
I thought , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m in the sports rally or something .
What &apos;s going on ? &quot; &quot; And the teacher was constantly scanning to see which kids weren &apos;t paying attention , which kids were bored , and calling kids rapidly , putting things up on the board .
It was a very dynamic environment , because particularly in those middle school years — fifth through eighth grade — keeping people engaged and setting the tone that everybody in the classroom needs to pay attention , nobody gets to make fun of it or have the position of the kid who doesn &apos;t want to be there .
Everybody needs to be involved .
And so KIPP is doing it .
How does that compare to a normal school ?
Well , in a normal school , teachers aren &apos;t told how good they are .
The data isn &apos;t gathered .
In the teacher &apos;s contract , it will limit the number of times the principal can come into the classroom — sometimes to once per year .
And they need advanced notice to do that .
So imagine running a factory where you &apos;ve got these workers , some of them just making crap and the management is told , &quot; &quot; Hey , you can only come down here once a year , but you need to let us know , because we might actually fool you , and try and do a good job in that one brief moment . &quot; &quot; Even a teacher who wants to improve doesn &apos;t have the tools to do it .
They don &apos;t have the test scores , and there &apos;s a whole thing of trying to block the data .
For example , New York passed a law that said that the teacher improvement data could not be made available and used in the tenure decision for the teachers .
And so that &apos;s sort of working in the opposite direction .
But I &apos;m optimistic about this , I think there are some clear things we can do .
First of all , there &apos;s a lot more testing going on , and that &apos;s given us the picture of where we are .
And that allows us to understand who &apos;s doing it well , and call them out , and find out what those techniques are .
Of course , digital video is cheap now .
Putting a few cameras in the classroom and saying that things are being recorded on an ongoing basis is very practical in all public schools .
And so every few weeks teachers could sit down and say , &quot; &quot; OK , here &apos;s a little clip of something I thought I did well .
Here &apos;s a little clip of something I think I did poorly .
Advise me — when this kid acted up , how should I have dealt with that ? &quot; &quot; And they could all sit and work together on those problems .
You can take the very best teachers and kind of annotate it , have it so everyone sees who is the very best at teaching this stuff .
You can take those great courses and make them available so that a kid could go out and watch the physics course , learn from that .
If you have a kid who &apos;s behind , you would know you could assign them that video to watch and review the concept .
And in fact , these free courses could not only be available just on the Internet , but you could make it so that DVDs were always available , and so anybody who has access to a DVD player can have the very best teachers .
And so by thinking of this as a personnel system , we can do it much better .
Now there &apos;s a book actually , about KIPP — the place that this is going on — that Jay Matthews , a news reporter , wrote — called , &quot; &quot; Work Hard , Be Nice . &quot; &quot; And I thought it was so fantastic .
It gave you a sense of what a good teacher does .
I &apos;m going to send everyone here a free copy of this book .
( Applause ) Now , we put a lot of money into education , and I really think that education is the most important thing to get right for the country to have as strong a future as it should have .
In fact we have in the stimulus bill — it &apos;s interesting — the House version actually had money in it for these data systems , and it was taken out in the Senate because there are people who are threatened by these things .
But I — I &apos;m optimistic .
I think people are beginning to recognize how important this is , and it really can make a difference for millions of lives , if we get it right .
I only had time to frame those two problems .
There &apos;s a lot more problems like that — AIDS , pneumonia — I can just see you &apos;re getting excited , just at the very name of these things .
And the skill sets required to tackle these things are very broad .
You know , the system doesn &apos;t naturally make it happen .
Governments don &apos;t naturally pick these things in the right way .
The private sector doesn &apos;t naturally put its resources into these things .
So it &apos;s going to take brilliant people like you to study these things , get other people involved — and you &apos;re helping to come up with solutions .
And with that , I think there &apos;s some great things that will come out of it .
Thank you .
( Applause )
I &apos;d like to take you to another world .
And I &apos;d like to share a 45 year-old love story with the poor , living on less than one dollar a day .
I went to a very elitist , snobbish , expensive education in India , and that almost destroyed me .
I was all set to be a diplomat , teacher , doctor — all laid out .
Then , I don &apos;t look it , but I was the Indian national squash champion for three years .
( Laughter ) The whole world was laid out for me .
Everything was at my feet .
I could do nothing wrong .
And then I thought out of curiosity I &apos;d like to go and live and work and just see what a village is like .
So in 1965 , I went to what was called the worst Bihar famine in India , and I saw starvation , death , people dying of hunger , for the first time .
It changed my life .
I came back home , told my mother , &quot; I &apos;d like to live and work in a village . &quot;
Mother went into a coma .
( Laughter ) &quot; &quot; What is this ?
The whole world is laid out for you , the best jobs are laid out for you , and you want to go and work in a village ?
I mean , is there something wrong with you ? &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; No , I &apos;ve got the best eduction .
It made me think .
And I wanted to give something back in my own way . &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; What do you want to do in a village ?
No job , no money , no security , no prospect . &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; I want to live and dig wells for five years . &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; Dig wells for five years ?
You went to the most expensive school and college in India , and you want to dig wells for five years ? &quot; &quot; She didn &apos;t speak to me for a very long time , because she thought I &apos;d let my family down .
But then , I was exposed to the most extraordinary knowledge and skills that very poor people have , which are never brought into the mainstream — which is never identified , respected , applied on a large scale .
And I thought I &apos;d start a Barefoot College — college only for the poor .
What the poor thought was important would be reflected in the college .
I went to this village for the first time .
Elders came to me and said , &quot; &quot; Are you running from the police ? &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; No . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) &quot; You failed in your exam ? &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; No . &quot; &quot;
&quot; You didn &apos;t get a government job ? &quot; I said , &quot; No . &quot;
&quot; &quot; What are you doing here ?
Why are you here ?
The education system in India makes you look at Paris and New Delhi and Zurich ; what are you doing in this village ?
Is there something wrong with you you &apos;re not telling us ? &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; No , I want to actually start a college only for the poor .
What the poor thought was important would be reflected in the college . &quot; &quot; So the elders gave me some very sound and profound advice .
They said , &quot; &quot; Please , don &apos;t bring anyone with a degree and qualification into your college . &quot; &quot; So it &apos;s the only college in India where , if you should have a Ph.D. or a Master &apos;s , you are disqualified to come .
You have to be a cop-out or a wash-out or a dropout to come to our college .
You have to work with your hands .
You have to have a dignity of labor .
You have to show that you have a skill that you can offer to the community and provide a service to the community .
So we started the Barefoot College , and we redefined professionalism .
Who is a professional ?
A professional is someone who has a combination of competence , confidence and belief .
A water diviner is a professional .
A traditional midwife is a professional .
A traditional bone setter is a professional .
These are professionals all over the world .
You find them in any inaccessible village around the world .
And we thought that these people should come into the mainstream and show that the knowledge and skills that they have is universal .
It needs to be used , needs to be applied , needs to be shown to the world outside — that these knowledge and skills are relevant even today .
So the college works following the lifestyle and workstyle of Mahatma Gandhi .
You eat on the floor , you sleep on the floor , you work on the floor .
There are no contracts , no written contracts .
You can stay with me for 20 years , go tomorrow .
And no one can get more than $ 100 a month .
You come for the money , you don &apos;t come to Barefoot College .
You come for the work and the challenge , you &apos;ll come to the Barefoot College .
That is where we want you to try crazy ideas .
Whatever idea you have , come and try it .
It doesn &apos;t matter if you fail .
Battered , bruised , you start again .
It &apos;s the only college where the teacher is the learner and the learner is the teacher .
And it &apos;s the only college where we don &apos;t give a certificate .
You are certified by the community you serve .
You don &apos;t need a paper to hang on the wall to show that you are an engineer .
So when I said that , they said , &quot; &quot; Well show us what is possible . What are you doing ?
This is all mumbo-jumbo if you can &apos;t show it on the ground . &quot; &quot; So we built the first Barefoot College in 1986 .
It was built by 12 Barefoot architects who can &apos;t read and write , built on $ 1.50 a sq. ft .
150 people lived there , worked there .
They got the Aga Khan Award for Architecture in 2002 .
But then they suspected , they thought there was an architect behind it .
I said , &quot; &quot; Yes , they made the blueprints , but the Barefoot architects actually constructed the college . &quot; &quot; We are the only ones who actually returned the award for $ 50,000 , because they didn &apos;t believe us , and we thought that they were actually casting aspersions on the Barefoot architects of Tilonia .
I asked a forester — high-powered , paper-qualified expert — I said , &quot; &quot; What can you build in this place ? &quot; &quot; He had one look at the soil and said , &quot; &quot; Forget it . No way .
Not even worth it .
No water , rocky soil . &quot; &quot; I was in a bit of a spot .
And I said , &quot; &quot; Okay , I &apos;ll go to the old man in village and say , &apos; What should I grow in this spot ? &apos; &quot; &quot; He looked quietly at me and said , &quot; You build this , you build this , you put this , and it &apos;ll work . &quot;
This is what it looks like today .
Went to the roof , and all the women said , &quot; &quot; Clear out .
The men should clear out because we don &apos;t want to share this technology with the men .
This is waterproofing the roof . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) It is a bit of jaggery , a bit of urens and a bit of other things I don &apos;t know .
But it actually doesn &apos;t leak .
Since 1986 , it hasn &apos;t leaked .
This technology , the women will not share with the men .
( Laughter ) It &apos;s the only college which is fully solar-electrified .
All the power comes from the sun .
45 kilowatts of panels on the roof .
And everything works off the sun for the next 25 years .
So long as the sun shines , we &apos;ll have no problem with power .
But the beauty is that is was installed by a priest , a Hindu priest , who &apos;s only done eight years of primary schooling — never been to school , never been to college .
He knows more about solar than anyone I know anywhere in the world guaranteed .
Food , if you come to the Barefoot College , is solar cooked .
But the people who fabricated that solar cooker are women , illiterate women , who actually fabricate the most sophisticated solar cooker .
It &apos;s a parabolic Scheffler solar cooker .
Unfortunately , they &apos;re almost half German , they &apos;re so precise .
( Laughter ) You &apos;ll never find Indian women so precise .
Absolutely to the last inch , they can make that cooker .
And we have 60 meals twice a day of solar cooking .
We have a dentist — she &apos;s a grandmother , illiterate , who &apos;s a dentist .
She actually looks after the teeth of 7,000 children .
Barefoot technology : this was 1986 — no engineer , no architect thought of it — but we are collecting rainwater from the roofs .
Very little water is wasted .
All the roofs are connected underground to a 400,000 liter tank , and no water is wasted .
If we have four years of drought , we still have water on the campus , because we collect rainwater .
60 percent of children don &apos;t go to school , because they have to look after animals — sheep , goats — domestic chores .
So we thought of starting a school at night for the children .
Because the night schools of Tilonia , over 75,000 children have gone through these night schools .
Because it &apos;s for the convenience of the child ; it &apos;s not for the convenience of the teacher .
And what do we teach in these schools ?
Democracy , citizenship , how you should measure your land , what you should do if you &apos;re arrested , what you should do if your animal is sick .
This is what we teach in the night schools .
But all the schools are solar-lit .
Every five years we have an election .
Between six to 14 year-old children participate in a democratic process , and they elect a prime minister .
The prime minister is 12 years old .
She looks after 20 goats in the morning , but she &apos;s prime minister in the evening .
She has a cabinet , a minister of education , a minister for energy , a minister for health .
And they actually monitor and supervise 150 schools for 7,000 children .
She got the World &apos;s Children &apos;s Prize five years ago , and she went to Sweden .
First time ever going out of her village .
Never seen Sweden .
Wasn &apos;t dazzled at all by what was happening .
And the Queen of Sweden , who &apos;s there , turned to me and said , &quot; &quot; Can you ask this child where she got her confidence from ?
She &apos;s only 12 years old , and she &apos;s not dazzled by anything . &quot; &quot; And the girl , who &apos;s on her left , turned to me and looked at the queen straight in the eye and said , &quot; &quot; Please tell her I &apos;m the prime minister . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Where the percentage of illiteracy is very high , we use puppetry .
Puppets is the way we communicate .
You have Jokhim Chacha who is 300 years old .
He is my psychoanalyst . He is my teacher .
He &apos;s my doctor . He &apos;s my lawyer .
He &apos;s my donor .
He actually raises money , solves my disputes .
He solves my problems in the village .
If there &apos;s tension in the village , if attendance at the schools goes down and there &apos;s a friction between the teacher and the parent , the puppet calls the teacher and the parent in front of the whole village and says , &quot; &quot; Shake hands .
The attendance must not drop . &quot; &quot; These puppets are made out of recycled World Bank reports .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So this decentralized , demystified approach of solar-electrifying villages , we &apos;ve covered all over India from Ladakh up to Bhutan — all solar-electrified villages by people who have been trained .
And we went to Ladakh , and we asked this woman — this , at minus 40 , you have to come out of the roof , because there &apos;s no place , it was all snowed up on both sides — and we asked this woman , &quot; &quot; What was the benefit you had from solar electricity ? &quot; &quot; And she thought for a minute and said , &quot; It &apos;s the first time I can see my husband &apos;s face in winter . &quot;
( Laughter ) Went to Afghanistan .
One lesson we learned in India was men are untrainable .
( Laughter ) Men are restless , men are ambitious , men are compulsively mobile , and they all want a certificate . ( Laughter )
All across the globe , you have this tendency of men wanting a certificate .
Why ? Because they want to leave the village and go to a city , looking for a job .
So we came up with a great solution : train grandmothers .
What &apos;s the best way of communicating in the world today ?
Television ? No .
Telegraph ? No .
Telephone ? No .
Tell a woman .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So we went to Afghanistan for the first time , and we picked three women and said , &quot; &quot; We want to take them to India . &quot; &quot; They said , &quot; &quot; Impossible . They don &apos;t even go out of their rooms , and you want to take them to India . &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; I &apos;ll make a concession . I &apos;ll take the husbands along as well . &quot; &quot; So I took the husbands along .
Of course , the women were much more intelligent than the men .
In six months , how do we train these women ?
Sign language .
You don &apos;t choose the written word .
You don &apos;t choose the spoken word .
You use sign language .
And in six months they can become solar engineers .
They go back and solar-electrify their own village .
This woman went back and solar-electrified the first village , set up a workshop — the first village ever to be solar-electrified in Afghanistan &#91; was &#93; by the three women . This woman
is an extraordinary grandmother .
55 years old , and she &apos;s solar-electrified 200 houses for me in Afghanistan .
And they haven &apos;t collapsed .
She actually went and spoke to an engineering department in Afghanistan and told the head of the department the difference between AC and DC .
He didn &apos;t know .
Those three women have trained 27 more women and solar-electrified 100 villages in Afghanistan .
We went to Africa , and we did the same thing .
All these women sitting at one table from eight , nine countries , all chatting to each other , not understanding a word , because they &apos;re all speaking a different language .
But their body language is great .
They &apos;re speaking to each other and actually becoming solar engineers .
I went to Sierra Leone , and there was this minister driving down in the dead of night — comes across this village .
Comes back , goes into the village , says , &quot; &quot; Well what &apos;s the story ? &quot; &quot; They said , &quot; &quot; These two grandmothers ... &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; Grandmothers ? &quot; &quot; The minister couldn &apos;t believe what was happening .
&quot; Where did they go ? &quot; &quot; Went to India and back . &quot;
Went straight to the president .
He said , &quot; &quot; Do you know there &apos;s a solar-electrified village in Sierra Leone ? &quot; &quot; He said , &quot; &quot; No . &quot; &quot; Half the cabinet went to see the grandmothers the next day .
&quot; What &apos;s the story . &quot;
So he summoned me and said , &quot; &quot; Can you train me 150 grandmothers ? &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; I can &apos;t , Mr. President .
But they will . The grandmothers will . &quot; &quot; So he built me the first Barefoot training center in Sierra Leone .
And 150 grandmothers have been trained in Sierra Leone .
Gambia : we went to select a grandmother in Gambia .
Went to this village .
I knew which woman I would like to take .
The community got together and said , &quot; &quot; Take these two women . &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; No , I want to take this woman . &quot; &quot; They said , &quot; &quot; Why ? She doesn &apos;t know the language . You don &apos;t know her . &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; I like the body language . I like the way she speaks . &quot; &quot; &quot; Difficult husband ; not possible . &quot;
Called the husband , the husband came , swaggering , politician , mobile in his hand . &quot; &quot; Not possible . &quot; &quot; &quot; Why not ? &quot; &quot; The woman , look how beautiful she is . &quot;
I said , &quot; &quot; Yeah , she is very beautiful . &quot; &quot; &quot; What happens if she runs off with an Indian man ? &quot;
That was his biggest fear .
I said , &quot; &quot; She &apos;ll be happy . She &apos;ll ring you up on the mobile . &quot; &quot; She went like a grandmother and came back like a tiger .
She walked out of the plane and spoke to the whole press as if she was a veteran .
She handled the national press , and she was a star .
And when I went back six months later , I said , &quot; &quot; Where &apos;s your husband ? &quot; &quot; &quot; Oh , somewhere . It doesn &apos;t matter . &quot;
( Laughter ) Success story . ( Laughter )
( Applause ) I &apos;ll just wind up by saying that I think you don &apos;t have to look for solutions outside .
Look for solutions within .
And listen to people . They have the solutions in front of you .
They &apos;re all over the world .
Don &apos;t even worry .
Don &apos;t listen to the World Bank , listen to the people on the ground .
They have all the solutions in the world .
I &apos;ll end with a quotation by Mahatma Gandhi .
&quot; &quot; First they ignore you , then they laugh at you , then they fight you , and then you win . &quot; &quot; Thank you .
( Applause )
I am a writer .
Writing books is my profession but it &apos;s more than that , of course .
It is also my great lifelong love and fascination .
And I don &apos;t expect that that &apos;s ever going to change .
But , that said , something kind of peculiar has happened recently in my life and in my career , which has caused me to have to recalibrate my whole relationship with this work .
And the peculiar thing is that I recently wrote this book , this memoir called &quot; &quot; Eat , Pray , Love &quot; &quot; which , decidedly unlike any of my previous books , went out in the world for some reason , and became this big , mega-sensation , international bestseller thing .
The result of which is that everywhere I go now , people treat me like I &apos;m doomed .
Seriously — doomed , doomed !
Like , they come up to me now , all worried , and they say , &quot; &quot; Aren &apos;t you afraid you &apos;re never going to be able to top that ?
Aren &apos;t you afraid you &apos;re going to keep writing for your whole life and you &apos;re never again going to create a book that anybody in the world cares about at all , ever again ? &quot; &quot; So that &apos;s reassuring , you know .
But it would be worse , except for that I happen to remember that over 20 years ago , when I was a teenager , when I first started telling people that I wanted to be a writer , I was met with this same sort of fear-based reaction .
Aren &apos;t you afraid that you &apos;re going to work your whole life at this craft and nothing &apos;s ever going to come of it and you &apos;re going to die on a scrap heap of broken dreams with your mouth filled with bitter ash of failure ? &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Like that , you know .
The answer — the short answer to all those questions is , &quot; &quot; Yes . &quot; &quot; Yes , I &apos;m afraid of all those things .
And I always have been .
And I &apos;m afraid of many , many more things besides that people can &apos;t even guess at , like seaweed and other things that are scary .
But , when it comes to writing , the thing that I &apos;ve been sort of thinking about lately , and wondering about lately , is why ?
Is it logical that anybody should be expected to be afraid of the work that they feel they were put on this Earth to do .
And what is it specifically about creative ventures that seems to make us really nervous about each other &apos;s mental health in a way that other careers kind of don &apos;t do , you know ?
Like my dad , for example , was a chemical engineer and I don &apos;t recall once in his 40 years of chemical engineering anybody asking him if he was afraid to be a chemical engineer , you know ?
&quot; That chemical-engineering block , John , how &apos;s it going ? &quot;
It just didn &apos;t come up like that , you know ?
But to be fair , chemical engineers as a group haven &apos;t really earned a reputation over the centuries for being alcoholic manic-depressives .
( Laughter ) We writers , we kind of do have that reputation , and not just writers , but creative people across all genres , it seems , have this reputation for being enormously mentally unstable .
And all you have to do is look at the very grim death count in the 20th century alone , of really magnificent creative minds who died young and often at their own hands , you know ?
And even the ones who didn &apos;t literally commit suicide seem to be really undone by their gifts , you know .
Norman Mailer , just before he died , last interview , he said , &quot; Every one of my books has killed me a little more . &quot;
An extraordinary statement to make about your life &apos;s work .
But we don &apos;t even blink when we hear somebody say this , because we &apos;ve heard that kind of stuff for so long and somehow we &apos;ve completely internalized and accepted collectively this notion that creativity and suffering are somehow inherently linked and that artistry , in the end , will always ultimately lead to anguish .
And the question that I want to ask everybody here today is are you guys all cool with that idea ?
Are you comfortable with that ?
Because you look at it even from an inch away and , you know — I &apos;m not at all comfortable with that assumption .
I think it &apos;s odious .
And I also think it &apos;s dangerous , and I don &apos;t want to see it perpetuated into the next century .
And I definitely know that , in my case — in my situation — it would be very dangerous for me to start sort of leaking down that dark path of assumption , particularly given the circumstance that I &apos;m in right now in my career .
Which is — you know , like check it out , I &apos;m pretty young , I &apos;m only about 40 years old .
And it &apos;s exceedingly likely that anything I write from this point forward is going to be judged by the world as the work that came after the freakish success of my last book , right ?
I should just put it bluntly , because we &apos;re all sort of friends here now — it &apos;s exceedingly likely that my greatest success is behind me .
So Jesus , what a thought !
That &apos;s the kind of thought that could lead a person to start drinking gin at nine o &apos;clock in the morning , and I don &apos;t want to go there .
( Laughter ) I would prefer to keep doing this work that I love .
And so , it seems to me , upon a lot of reflection , that the way that I have to work now , in order to continue writing , is that I have to create some sort of protective psychological construct , right ?
I have to sort of find some way to have a safe distance between me , as I am writing , and my very natural anxiety about what the reaction to that writing is going to be , from now on .
And , as I &apos;ve been looking , over the last year , for models for how to do that , I &apos;ve been sort of looking across time , and I &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have had better and saner ideas than we have about how to help creative people sort of manage the inherent emotional risks of creativity .
And that search has led me to ancient Greece and ancient Rome .
So stay with me , because it does circle around and back .
But , ancient Greece and ancient Rome — people did not happen to believe that creativity came from human beings back then , OK ?
People believed that creativity was this divine attendant spirit that came to human beings from some distant and unknowable source , for distant and unknowable reasons .
The Greeks famously called these divine attendant spirits of creativity &quot; &quot; daemons . &quot; &quot; Socrates , famously , believed that he had a daemon who spoke wisdom to him from afar .
The Romans had the same idea , but they called that sort of disembodied creative spirit a genius .
Which is great , because the Romans did not actually think that a genius was a particularly clever individual .
They believed that a genius was this , sort of magical divine entity , who was believed to literally live in the walls of an artist &apos;s studio , kind of like Dobby the house elf , and who would come out and sort of invisibly assist the artist with their work and would shape the outcome of that work .
So brilliant — there it is , right there , that distance that I &apos;m talking about — that psychological construct to protect you from the results of your work .
And everyone knew that this is how it functioned , right ?
So the ancient artist was protected from certain things , like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
If your work was brilliant , you couldn &apos;t take all the credit for it , everybody knew that you had this disembodied genius who had helped you .
If your work bombed , not entirely your fault , you know ?
Everyone knew your genius was kind of lame .
And for the first time in history , you start to hear people referring to this or that artist as being a genius , rather than having a genius .
And I got to tell you , I think that was a huge error .
You know , I think that allowing somebody , one mere person to believe that he or she is like , the vessel , you know , like the font and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknowable , eternal mystery is just a smidge too much responsibility to put on one fragile , human psyche .
It &apos;s like asking somebody to swallow the sun .
It just completely warps and distorts egos , and it creates all these unmanageable expectations about performance .
And I think the pressure of that has been killing off our artists for the last 500 years .
And , if this is true , and I think it is true , the question becomes , what now ?
Can we do this differently ?
Maybe go back to some more ancient understanding about the relationship between humans and the creative mystery .
Maybe not .
Maybe we can &apos;t just erase 500 years of rational humanistic thought in one 18 minute speech .
And there &apos;s probably people in this audience who would raise really legitimate scientific suspicions about the notion of , basically , fairies who follow people around rubbing fairy juice on their projects and stuff .
I &apos;m not , probably , going to bring you all along with me on this .
But the question that I kind of want to pose is — you know , why not ?
Why not think about it this way ?
Because it makes as much sense as anything else I have ever heard in terms of explaining the utter maddening capriciousness of the creative process .
A process which , as anybody who has ever tried to make something — which is to say basically everyone here — - knows does not always behave rationally .
And , in fact , can sometimes feel downright paranormal .
I had this encounter recently where I met the extraordinary American poet Ruth Stone , who &apos;s now in her 90s , but she &apos;s been a poet her entire life and she told me that when she was growing up in rural Virginia , she would be out working in the fields , and she said she would feel and hear a poem coming at her from over the landscape .
And she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
And it would come barreling down at her over the landscape .
She would catch the poem by its tail , and she would pull it backwards into her body as she was transcribing on the page .
And in these instances , the poem would come up on the page perfect and intact but backwards , from the last word to the first .
( Laughter ) So when I heard that I was like — that &apos;s uncanny , that &apos;s exactly what my creative process is like . ( Laughter )
That &apos;s not at all what my creative process is — I &apos;m not the pipeline !
But even I , in my mulishness , even I have brushed up against that thing , at times .
And I would imagine that a lot of you have too .
You know , even I have had work or ideas come through me from a source that I honestly cannot identify .
And what is that thing ?
And how are we to relate to it in a way that will not make us lose our minds , but , in fact , might actually keep us sane ?
And for me , the best contemporary example that I have of how to do that is the musician Tom Waits , who I got to interview several years ago on a magazine assignment .
And we were talking about this , and you know , Tom , for most of his life , he was pretty much the embodiment of the tormented contemporary modern artist , trying to control and manage and dominate these sort of uncontrollable creative impulses that were totally internalized .
But then he got older , he got calmer , and one day he was driving down the freeway in Los Angeles , and this is when it all changed for him .
And he &apos;s speeding along , and all of a sudden he hears this little fragment of melody , that comes into his head as inspiration often comes , elusive and tantalizing , and he wants it , it &apos;s gorgeous , and he longs for it , but he has no way to get it .
So he starts to feel all of that old anxiety start to rise in him like , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m going to lose this thing , and I &apos;ll be be haunted by this song forever .
He just stopped that whole mental process and he did something completely novel .
He just looked up at the sky , and he said , &quot; Excuse me , can you not see that I &apos;m driving ? &quot;
( Laughter ) &quot; &quot; Do I look like I can write down a song right now ?
If you really want to exist , come back at a more opportune moment when I can take care of you .
Otherwise , go bother somebody else today .
Go bother Leonard Cohen . &quot; &quot; And his whole work process changed after that .
Not the work , the work was still oftentimes as dark as ever .
But the process , and the heavy anxiety around it was released when he took the genie , the genius out of him where it was causing nothing but trouble , and released it back where it came from , and realized that this didn &apos;t have to be this internalized , tormented thing .
It could be this peculiar , wondrous , bizarre collaboration , kind of conversation between Tom and the strange , external thing that was not quite Tom .
It saved me when I was in the middle of writing &quot; &quot; Eat , Pray , Love , &quot; &quot; and I fell into one of those sort of pits of despair that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it &apos;s not coming and you start to think this is going to be a disaster , the worst book ever written .
But then I remembered Tom talking to the open air and I tried it .
So I just lifted my face up from the manuscript and I directed my comments to an empty corner of the room .
And I said aloud , &quot; &quot; Listen you , thing , you and I both know that if this book isn &apos;t brilliant that is not entirely my fault , right ?
Because you can see that I am putting everything I have into this , I don &apos;t have any more than this .
And I would please like the record to reflect today that I showed up for my part of the job . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Because — ( Applause ) Because in the end it &apos;s like this , OK — centuries ago in the deserts of North Africa , people used to gather for these moonlight dances of sacred dance and music that would go on for hours and hours , until dawn .
They were always magnificent , because the dancers were professionals and they were terrific , right ?
But every once in a while , very rarely , something would happen , and one of these performers would actually become transcendent .
And I know you know what I &apos;m talking about , because I know you &apos;ve all seen , at some point in your life , a performance like this .
It was like time would stop , and the dancer would sort of step through some kind of portal and he wasn &apos;t doing anything different than he had ever done , 1,000 nights before , but everything would align .
And all of a sudden , he would no longer appear to be merely human .
He would be lit from within , and lit from below and all lit up on fire with divinity .
And when this happened , back then , people knew it for what it was , you know , they called it by its name .
They would put their hands together and they would start to chant , &quot; Allah , Allah , Allah , God , God , God . &quot;
That &apos;s God , you know .
Curious historical footnote : when the Moors invaded southern Spain , they took this custom with them and the pronunciation changed over the centuries from &quot; &quot; Allah , Allah , Allah , &quot; &quot; to &quot; &quot; Olé , olé , olé , &quot; &quot; which you still hear in bullfights and in flamenco dances .
In Spain , when a performer has done something impossible and magic , &quot; Allah , olé , olé , Allah , magnificent , bravo , &quot; incomprehensible , there it is — a glimpse of God .
But , the tricky bit comes the next morning , for the dancer himself , when he wakes up and discovers that it &apos;s Tuesday at 11 a.m. , and he &apos;s no longer a glimpse of God .
He &apos;s just an aging mortal with really bad knees , and maybe he &apos;s never going to ascend to that height again .
And maybe nobody will ever chant God &apos;s name again as he spins , and what is he then to do with the rest of his life ?
This is hard .
This is one of the most painful reconciliations to make in a creative life .
But maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be quite so full of anguish if you never happened to believe , in the first place , that the most extraordinary aspects of your being came from you .
But maybe if you just believed that they were on loan to you from some unimaginable source for some exquisite portion of your life to be passed along when you &apos;re finished , with somebody else .
This is how I &apos;ve started to think , and this is certainly how I &apos;ve been thinking in the last few months as I &apos;ve been working on the book that will soon be published , as the dangerously , frighteningly over-anticipated follow up to my freakish success .
And what I have to sort of keep telling myself when I get really psyched out about that is don &apos;t be afraid .
Don &apos;t be daunted . Just do your job .
Continue to show up for your piece of it , whatever that might be .
If the divine , cockeyed genius assigned to your case decides to let some sort of wonderment be glimpsed , for just one moment through your efforts , then &quot; &quot; Olé ! &quot; &quot; And if not , do your dance anyhow .
And &quot; &quot; Olé ! &quot; &quot; to you , nonetheless .
I believe this and I feel that we must teach it .
&quot; &quot; Olé ! &quot; &quot; to you , nonetheless , just for having the sheer human love and stubbornness to keep showing up .
Thank you .
( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause )
June Cohen : Olé ! ( Applause )
My name is Ursus Wehrli , and I would like to talk to you this morning about my project , Tidying Up Art .
First of all — any questions so far ?
First of all , I have to say I &apos;m not from around here .
I &apos;m from a completely different cultural area , maybe you noticed ?
I mean , I &apos;m wearing a tie , first . And then secondly , I &apos;m a little bit nervous because I &apos;m speaking in a foreign language , and I want to apologize in advance , for any mistakes I might make .
Because I &apos;m from Switzerland , and I just don &apos;t hope you think this is Swiss German I &apos;m speaking now here . This is just what it sounds like if we Swiss try to speak American .
But don &apos;t worry — I don &apos;t have trouble with English , as such .
I mean , it &apos;s not my problem , it &apos;s your language after all .
( Laughter ) I am fine . After this presentation here at TED , I can simply go back to Switzerland , and you have to go on talking like this all the time . ( Laughter )
So I &apos;ve been asked by the organizers to read from my book .
It &apos;s called &quot; &quot; Tidying Up Art &quot; &quot; and it &apos;s , as you can see , it &apos;s more or less a picture book .
So the reading would be over very quickly .
But since I &apos;m here at TED , I decided to hold my talk here in a more modern way , in the spirit of TED here , and I managed to do some slides here for you .
I &apos;d like to show them around so we can just , you know — ( Laughter ) Actually , I managed to prepare for you some enlarged pictures — even better .
So Tidying Up Art , I mean , I have to say , that &apos;s a relatively new term .
You won &apos;t be familiar with it .
I mean , it &apos;s a hobby of mine that I &apos;ve been indulging in for the last few years , and it all started out with this picture of the American artist , Donald Baechler I had hanging at home . I had to look at it every day and after a while I just couldn &apos;t stand the mess anymore this guy was looking at all day long .
Yeah , I kind of felt sorry for him .
And it seemed to me even he felt really bad facing these unorganized red squares day after day .
So I decided to give him a little support , and brought some order into neatly stacking the blocks on top of each other .
( Laughter ) Yeah . And I think he looks now less miserable .
And it was great . With this experience , I started to look more closely at modern art . Then I realized how , you know , the world of modern art is particularly topsy-turvy .
And I can show here a very good example .
It &apos;s actually a simple one , but it &apos;s a good one to start with .
It &apos;s a picture by Paul Klee .
And we can see here very clearly , it &apos;s a confusion of color .
( Laughter ) Yeah . The artist doesn &apos;t really seem to know where to put the different colors .
The various pictures here of the various elements of the picture — the whole thing is unstructured .
We don &apos;t know , maybe Mr. Klee was probably in a hurry , I mean — ( Laughter ) — maybe he had to catch a plane , or something .
We can see here he started out with orange , and then he already ran out of orange , and here we can see he decided to take a break for a square .
And I would like to show you here my tidied up version of this picture .
( Laughter ) We can see now what was barely recognizable in the original : 17 red and orange squares are juxtaposed with just two green squares .
Yeah , that &apos;s great .
So I mean , that &apos;s just tidying up for beginners .
I would like to show you here a picture which is a bit more advanced .
( Laughter ) What can you say ? What a mess .
I mean , you see , everything seems to have been scattered aimlessly around the space .
If my room back home had looked like this , my mother would have grounded me for three days .
So I &apos;d like to — I wanted to reintroduce some structure into that picture .
And that &apos;s really advanced tidying up .
( Applause ) Yeah , you &apos;re right . Sometimes people clap at this point , but that &apos;s actually more in Switzerland .
( Laughter ) We Swiss are famous for chocolate and cheese . Our trains run on time .
We are only happy when things are in order .
But to go on , here is a very good example to see .
This is a picture by Joan Miro .
And yeah , we can see the artist has drawn a few lines and shapes and dropped them any old way onto a yellow background .
And yeah , it &apos;s the sort of thing you produce when you &apos;re doodling on the phone .
( Laughter ) And this is my — ( Laughter ) — you can see now the whole thing takes up far less space .
It &apos;s more economical and also more efficient .
With this method Mr. Miro could have saved canvas for another picture .
But I can see in your faces that you &apos;re still a little bit skeptical .
So that you can just appreciate how serious I am about all this , I brought along the patents , the specifications for some of these works , because I &apos;ve had my working methods patented at the Eidgenössische Amt für Geistiges Eigentum in Bern , Switzerland .
( Laughter ) I &apos;ll just quote from the specification .
&quot; Laut den Kunstprüfer Dr. Albrecht — &quot; It &apos;s not finished yet .
&quot; &quot; Laut den Kunstprüfer Dr. Albrecht Götz von Ohlenhusen wird die Verfahrensweise rechtlich geschützt welche die Kunst durch spezifisch aufgeräumte Regelmässigkeiten des allgemeinen Formenschatzes neue Wirkungen zu erzielen möglich wird . &quot; &quot; Ja , well I could have translated that , but you would have been none the wiser .
I &apos;m not sure myself what it means but it sounds good anyway .
I just realized it &apos;s important how one introduces new ideas to people , that &apos;s why these patents are sometimes necessary .
I would like to do a short test with you .
Everyone is sitting in quite an orderly fashion here this morning .
So I would like to ask you all to raise your right hand . Yeah .
The right hand is the one we write with , apart from the left-handers .
And now , I &apos;ll count to three . I mean , it still looks very orderly to me .
Now , I &apos;ll count to three , and on the count of three I &apos;d like you all to shake hands with the person behind you . OK ?
One , two , three .
( Laughter ) You can see now , that &apos;s a good example : even behaving in an orderly , systematic way can sometimes lead to complete chaos .
So we can also see that very clearly in this next painting .
This is a painting by the artist , Niki de Saint Phalle .
And I mean , in the original it &apos;s completely unclear to see what this tangle of colors and shapes is supposed to depict .
But in the tidied up version , it &apos;s plain to see that it &apos;s a sunburnt woman playing volleyball .
( Laughter ) Yeah , it &apos;s a — this one here , that &apos;s much better .
That &apos;s a picture by Keith Haring .
( Laughter ) I think it doesn &apos;t matter .
So , I mean , this picture has not even got a proper title .
It &apos;s called &quot; &quot; Untitled &quot; &quot; and I think that &apos;s appropriate .
So , in the tidied-up version we have a sort of Keith Haring spare parts shop .
( Laughter ) This is Keith Haring looked at statistically .
One can see here quite clearly , you can see we have 25 pale green elements , of which one is in the form of a circle .
Or here , for example , we have 27 pink squares with only one pink curve .
I mean , that &apos;s interesting . One could extend this sort of statistical analysis to cover all Mr. Haring &apos;s various works , in order to establish in which period the artist favored pale green circles or pink squares .
And the artist himself could also benefit from this sort of listing procedure by using it to estimate how many pots of paint he &apos;s likely to need in the future .
( Laughter ) One can obviously also make combinations .
For example , with the Keith Haring circles and Kandinsky &apos;s dots .
You can add them to all the squares of Paul Klee .
In the end , one has a list with which one then can arrange .
Then you categorize it , then you file it , put that file in a filing cabinet , put it in your office and you can make a living doing it .
( Laughter ) Yeah , from my own experience . So I &apos;m — ( Laughter ) Actually , I mean , here we have some artists that are a bit more structured . It &apos;s not too bad .
This is Jasper Johns . We can see here he was practicing with his ruler .
( Laughter ) But I think it could still benefit from more discipline .
And I think the whole thing adds up much better if you do it like this .
( Laughter ) And here , that &apos;s one of my favorites .
Tidying up Rene Magritte — this is really fun .
You know , there is a — ( Laughter ) I &apos;m always being asked what inspired me to embark on all this .
It goes back to a time when I was very often staying in hotels .
So once I had the opportunity to stay in a ritzy , five-star hotel .
And you know , there you had this little sign — I put this little sign outside the door every morning that read , &quot; &quot; Please tidy room . &quot; &quot; I don &apos;t know if you have them over here .
So actually , my room there hasn &apos;t been tidied once daily , but three times a day .
So after a while I decided to have a little fun , and before leaving the room each day I &apos;d scatter a few things around the space .
Like books , clothes , toothbrush , etc . And it was great .
By the time I returned everything had always been neatly returned to its place .
But then one morning , I hang the same little sign onto that picture by Vincent van Gogh .
( Laughter ) And you have to say this room hadn &apos;t been tidied up since 1888 .
And when I returned it looked like this .
( Laughter ) Yeah , at least it is now possible to do some vacuuming . ( Laughter )
OK , I mean , I can see there are always people that like reacting that one or another picture hasn &apos;t been properly tidied up . So we can make a short test with you .
This is a picture by Rene Magritte , and I &apos;d like you all to inwardly — like in your head , that is — to tidy that up . So it &apos;s possible that some of you would make it like this .
( Laughter ) Yeah ? I would actually prefer to do it more this way .
Some people would make apple pie out of it .
But it &apos;s a very good example to see that the whole work was more of a handicraft endeavor that involved the very time-consuming job of cutting out the various elements and sticking them back in new arrangements .
And it &apos;s not done , as many people imagine , with the computer , otherwise it would look like this .
( Laughter ) So now I &apos;ve been able to tidy up pictures that I &apos;ve wanted to tidy up for a long time .
Here is a very good example . Take Jackson Pollock , for example .
It &apos;s — oh , no , it &apos;s — that &apos;s a really hard one .
But after a while , I just decided here to go all the way and put the paint back into the cans .
( Applause ) Or you could go into three-dimensional art .
Here we have the fur cup by Meret Oppenheim .
Here I just brought it back to its original state .
( Laughter ) But yeah , and it &apos;s great , you can even go , you know — Or we have this pointillist movement for those of you who are into art .
The pointillist movement is that kind of paintings where everything is broken down into dots and pixels .
And then I — this sort of thing is ideal for tidying up .
( Laughter ) So I once applied myself to the work of the inventor of that method , Georges Seurat , and I collected together all his dots .
And now they &apos;re all in here .
( Laughter ) You can count them afterwards , if you like .
You see , that &apos;s the wonderful thing about the tidy up art idea : it &apos;s new . So there is no existing tradition in it .
There is no textbooks , I mean , not yet , anyway .
I mean , it &apos;s &quot; &quot; the future we will create . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) But to round things up I would like to show you just one more .
This is the village square by Pieter Bruegel .
That &apos;s how it looks like when you send everyone home .
( Laughter ) Yeah , maybe you &apos;re asking yourselves where old Bruegel &apos;s people went ?
Of course , they &apos;re not gone . They &apos;re all here .
( Laughter ) I just piled them up . ( Laughter )
So I &apos;m — yeah , actually I &apos;m kind of finished at that moment .
And for those who want to see more , I &apos;ve got my book downstairs in the bookshop .
And I &apos;m happy to sign it for you with any name of any artist .
( Laughter ) But before leaving I would like to show you , I &apos;m working right now on another — in a related field with my tidying up art method . I &apos;m working in a related field .
And I started to bring some order into some flags .
Here — that &apos;s just my new proposal here for the Union Jack .
( Laughter ) And then maybe before I leave you ...
yeah , I think , after you have seen that I have to leave anyway .
( Laughter ) Yeah , that was a hard one . I couldn &apos;t find a way to tidy that up properly , so I just decided to make it a little bit more simpler . ( Laughter )
Thank you very much .
( Applause )
And in the seat next to me was a high school student , a teenager , and she came from a really poor family .
And she wanted to make something of her life , and she asked me a simple little question .
And I think , jeez , I &apos;m in the middle of a room of successful people !
Nothing comes easily . But I have a lot of fun . &quot; &quot; Did he say fun ? Rupert ? Yes !
I wasn &apos;t good enough ; I wasn &apos;t smart enough .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Frank Gehry said to me , &quot; My mother pushed me . &quot; ( Laughter )
TEDster Bill Gates says , &quot; &quot; I had an idea : founding the first micro-computer software company . &quot; &quot; I &apos;d say it was a pretty good idea .
And there &apos;s no magic to creativity in coming up with ideas — it &apos;s just doing some very simple things .
As a boy , I loved cars .
When I turned 18 , I lost my best friend to a car accident .
Like this .
And then I decided I &apos;d dedicate my life to saving one million people every year .
Now I haven &apos;t succeeded , so this is just a progress report , but I &apos;m here to tell you a little bit about self-driving cars .
I saw the concept first in the DARPA Grand Challenges where the U.S. government issued a prize to build a self-driving car that could navigate a desert .
And even though a hundred teams were there , these cars went nowhere .
So we decided at Stanford to build a different self-driving car .
We built the hardware and the software .
We made it learn from us , and we set it free in the desert .
And the unimaginable happened : it became the first car to ever return from a DARPA Grand Challenge , winning Stanford 2 million dollars .
Yet I still hadn &apos;t saved a single life .
Since , our work has focused on building driving cars that can drive anywhere by themselves — any street in California .
Our cars have sensors by which they magically can see everything around them and make decisions about every aspect of driving .
It &apos;s the perfect driving mechanism .
We &apos;ve driven in cities , like in San Francisco here .
We &apos;ve driven from San Francisco to Los Angeles on Highway 1 .
We &apos;ve encountered joggers , busy highways , toll booths , and this is without a person in the loop ; the car just drives itself .
In fact , while we drove 140,000 miles , people didn &apos;t even notice .
Mountain roads , day and night , and even crooked Lombard Street in San Francisco .
( Laughter ) Sometimes our cars get so crazy , they even do little stunts .
( Video ) Man : Oh , my God .
What ?
Second Man : It &apos;s driving itself .
Sebastian Thrun : Now I can &apos;t get my friend Harold back to life , but I can do something for all the people who died .
Do you know that driving accidents are the number one cause of death for young people ?
And do you realize that almost all of those are due to human error and not machine error , and can therefore be prevented by machines ?
Do you realize that we could change the capacity of highways by a factor of two or three if we didn &apos;t rely on human precision on staying in the lane — improve body position and therefore drive a little bit closer together on a little bit narrower lanes , and do away with all traffic jams on highways ?
Do you realize that you , TED users , spend an average of 52 minutes per day in traffic , wasting your time on your daily commute ?
You could regain this time .
This is four billion hours wasted in this country alone .
And it &apos;s 2.4 billion gallons of gasoline wasted .
Now I think there &apos;s a vision here , a new technology , and I &apos;m really looking forward to a time when generations after us look back at us and say how ridiculous it was that humans were driving cars .
Thank you .
( Applause )
I wanted to see how children coped with challenge and difficulty , so I gave 10-year-olds problems that were slightly too hard for them .
They said things like , &quot; &quot; I love a challenge , &quot; &quot; or , &quot; &quot; You know , I was hoping this would be informative . &quot; &quot; They understood that their abilities could be developed .
But on the right , you have the students with the growth mindset , the idea that abilities can be developed .
Are we raising them for now instead of yet ?
How can we build that bridge to yet ?
But praising the process that kids engage in , their effort , their strategies , their focus , their perseverance , their improvement .
There are other ways to reward yet .
In this game , students were rewarded for effort , strategy and progress .
The usual math game rewards you for getting answers right , right now , but this game rewarded process .
And we got more effort , more strategies , more engagement over longer periods of time , and more perseverance when they hit really , really hard problems .
In one study , we taught them that every time they push out of their comfort zone to learn something new and difficult , the neurons in their brain can form new , stronger connections , and over time , they can get smarter .
Look what happened : In this study , students who were not taught this growth mindset continued to show declining grades over this difficult school transition , but those who were taught this lesson showed a sharp rebound in their grades .
In our country , there are groups of students who chronically underperform , for example , children in inner cities , or children on Native American reservations .
In one year , a kindergarten class in Harlem , New York scored in the 95th percentile on the national achievement test .
Many of those kids could not hold a pencil when they arrived at school .
So the Native kids outdid the Microsoft kids .
That &apos;s when they &apos;re getting smarter .
I put more effort into my schoolwork , into my relationship with my family , and into my relationship with kids at school , and I experienced great improvement in all of those areas .
I now realize I &apos;ve wasted most of my life . &quot; &quot; Let &apos;s not waste any more lives , because once we know that abilities are capable of such growth , it becomes a basic human right for children , all children , to live in places that create that growth , to live in places filled with &quot; &quot; yet &quot; &quot; .
The recent debate over copyright laws like SOPA in the United States and the ACTA agreement in Europe has been very emotional .
And I think some dispassionate , quantitative reasoning could really bring a great deal to the debate .
I &apos;d therefore like to propose that we employ , we enlist , the cutting edge field of copyright math whenever we approach this subject .
For instance , just recently the Motion Picture Association revealed that our economy loses 58 billion dollars a year to copyright theft .
Now rather than just argue about this number , a copyright mathematician will analyze it and he &apos;ll soon discover that this money could stretch from this auditorium all the way across Ocean Boulevard to the Westin , and then to Mars ...
( Laughter ) ... if we use pennies .
Now this is obviously a powerful , some might say dangerously powerful , insight .
But it &apos;s also a morally important one .
Because this isn &apos;t just the hypothetical retail value of some pirated movies that we &apos;re talking about , but this is actual economic losses .
This is the equivalent to the entire American corn crop failing along with all of our fruit crops , as well as wheat , tobacco , rice , sorghum — whatever sorghum is — losing sorghum .
But identifying the actual losses to the economy is almost impossible to do unless we use copyright math .
Now music revenues are down by about eight billion dollars a year since Napster first came on the scene .
So that &apos;s a chunk of what we &apos;re looking for .
But total movie revenues across theaters , home video and pay-per-view are up .
And TV , satellite and cable revenues are way up .
Other content markets like book publishing and radio are also up .
So this small missing chunk here is puzzling .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Since the big content markets have grown in line with historic norms , it &apos;s not additional growth that piracy has prevented , but copyright math tells us it must therefore be foregone growth in a market that has no historic norms — one that didn &apos;t exist in the 90 &apos;s .
What we &apos;re looking at here is the insidious cost of ringtone piracy .
( Laughter ) 50 billion dollars of it a year , which is enough , at 30 seconds a ringtone , that could stretch from here to Neanderthal times . ( Laughter )
It &apos;s true .
( Applause ) I have Excel .
( Laughter ) The movie folks also tell us that our economy loses over 370,000 jobs to content theft , which is quite a lot when you consider that , back in &apos; 98 , the Bureau of Labor Statistics indicated that the motion picture and video industries were employing 270,000 people .
Other data has the music industry at about 45,000 people .
And so the job losses that came with the Internet and all that content theft , have therefore left us with negative employment in our content industries .
And this is just one of the many mind-blowing statistics that copyright mathematicians have to deal with every day .
And some people think that string theory is tough .
( Laughter ) Now this is a key number from the copyright mathematicians &apos; toolkit .
It &apos;s the precise amount of harm that comes to media companies whenever a single copyrighted song or movie gets pirated .
Hollywood and Congress derived this number mathematically back when they last sat down to improve copyright damages and made this law .
Some people think this number &apos;s a little bit large , but copyright mathematicians who are media lobby experts are merely surprised that it doesn &apos;t get compounded for inflation every year .
Now when this law first passed , the world &apos;s hottest MP3 player could hold just 10 songs .
And it was a big Christmas hit .
Because what little hoodlum wouldn &apos;t want a million and a half bucks-worth of stolen goods in his pocket .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) These days an iPod Classic can hold 40,000 songs , which is to say eight billion dollars-worth of stolen media . ( Applause )
Or about 75,000 jobs .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Now you might find copyright math strange , but that &apos;s because it &apos;s a field that &apos;s best left to experts .
So that &apos;s it for now .
I hope you &apos;ll join me next time when I will be making an equally scientific and fact-based inquiry into the cost of alien music piracy to he American economy .
Thank you very much .
( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause )
In the year 1919 , a virtually unknown German mathematician , named Theodor Kaluza suggested a very bold and , in some ways , a very bizarre idea .
He proposed that our universe might actually have more than the three dimensions that we are all aware of .
That is in addition to left , right , back , forth and up , down , Kaluza proposed that there might be additional dimensions of space that for some reason we don &apos;t yet see .
Now , when someone makes a bold and bizarre idea , sometimes that &apos;s all it is — bold and bizarre , but it has nothing to do with the world around us .
This particular idea , however — although we don &apos;t yet know whether it &apos;s right or wrong , and at the end I &apos;ll discuss experiments which , in the next few years , may tell us whether it &apos;s right or wrong — this idea has had a major impact on physics in the last century and continues to inform a lot of cutting-edge research .
So , I &apos;d like to tell you something about the story of these extra dimensions .
So where do we go ?
To begin we need a little bit of back story . Go to 1907 .
This is a year when Einstein is basking in the glow of having discovered the special theory of relativity and decides to take on a new project , to try to understand fully the grand , pervasive force of gravity .
And in that moment , there are many people around who thought that that project had already been resolved .
Newton had given the world a theory of gravity in the late 1600s that works well , describes the motion of planets , the motion of the moon and so forth , the motion of apocryphal of apples falling from trees , hitting people on the head .
All of that could be described using Newton &apos;s work .
But Einstein realized that Newton had left something out of the story , because even Newton had written that although he understood how to calculate the effect of gravity , he &apos;d been unable to figure out how it really works .
How is it that the Sun , 93 million miles away , &#91; that &#93; somehow it affects the motion of the Earth ?
How does the Sun reach out across empty inert space and exert influence ?
And that is a task to which Einstein set himself — to figure out how gravity works .
And let me show you what it is that he found .
So Einstein found that the medium that transmits gravity is space itself .
The idea goes like this : imagine space is a substrate of all there is .
Einstein said space is nice and flat , if there &apos;s no matter present .
But if there is matter in the environment , such as the Sun , it causes the fabric of space to warp , to curve .
And that communicates the force of gravity .
Even the Earth warps space around it .
Now look at the Moon .
The Moon is kept in orbit , according to these ideas , because it rolls along a valley in the curved environment that the Sun and the Moon and the Earth can all create by virtue of their presence .
We go to a full-frame view of this .
The Earth itself is kept in orbit because it rolls along a valley in the environment that &apos;s curved because of the Sun &apos;s presence .
That is this new idea about how gravity actually works .
Now , this idea was tested in 1919 through astronomical observations .
It really works . It describes the data .
And this gained Einstein prominence around the world .
And that is what got Kaluza thinking .
He , like Einstein , was in search of what we call a unified theory .
That &apos;s one theory that might be able to describe all of nature &apos;s forces from one set of ideas , one set of principles , one master equation , if you will .
So Kaluza said to himself , Einstein has been able to describe gravity in terms of warps and curves in space — in fact , space and time , to be more precise .
Maybe I can play the same game with the other known force , which was , at that time , known as the electromagnetic force — we know of others today , but at that time that was the only other one people were thinking about .
You know , the force responsible for electricity and magnetic attraction and so forth .
So Kaluza says , maybe I can play the same game and describe electromagnetic force in terms of warps and curves .
That raised a question : warps and curves in what ?
Einstein had already used up space and time , warps and curves , to describe gravity .
There didn &apos;t seem to be anything else to warp or curve .
So Kaluza said , well , maybe there are more dimensions of space .
He said , if I want to describe one more force , maybe I need one more dimension .
So he imagined that the world had four dimensions of space , not three , and imagined that electromagnetism was warps and curves in that fourth dimension . Now here &apos;s the thing : when he wrote down the equations describing warps and curves in a universe with four space dimensions , not three , he found the old equations that Einstein had already derived in three dimensions — those were for gravity — but he found one more equation because of the one more dimension .
And when he looked at that equation , it was none other than the equation that scientists had long known to describe the electromagnetic force .
Amazing — it just popped out .
He was so excited by this realization that he ran around his house screaming , &quot; &quot; Victory ! &quot; &quot; — that he had found the unified theory .
Now clearly , Kaluza was a man who took theory very seriously .
He , in fact — there is a story that when he wanted to learn how to swim , he read a book , a treatise on swimming — ( Laughter ) — then dove into the ocean .
This is a man who would risk his life on theory .
Now , but for those of us who are a little bit more practically minded , two questions immediately arise from his observation .
Number one : if there are more dimensions in space , where are they ?
We don &apos;t seem to see them .
And number two : does this theory really work in detail , when you try to apply it to the world around us ?
Now , the first question was answered in 1926 by a fellow named Oskar Klein .
He suggested that dimensions might come in two varieties — there might be big , easy-to-see dimensions , but there might also be tiny , curled-up dimensions , curled up so small , even though they &apos;re all around us , that we don &apos;t see them .
Let me show you that one visually .
So , imagine you &apos;re looking at something like a cable supporting a traffic light .
It &apos;s in Manhattan . You &apos;re in Central Park — it &apos;s kind of irrelevant — but the cable looks one-dimensional from a distant viewpoint , but you and I all know that it does have some thickness .
It &apos;s very hard to see it , though , from far away .
But if we zoom in and take the perspective of , say , a little ant walking around — little ants are so small that they can access all of the dimensions — the long dimension , but also this clockwise , counter-clockwise direction .
And I hope you appreciate this .
It took so long to get these ants to do this .
( Laughter ) But this illustrates the fact that dimensions can be of two sorts : big and small . And the idea that maybe the big dimensions around us are the ones that we can easily see , but there might be additional dimensions curled up , sort of like the circular part of that cable , so small that they have so far remained invisible .
Let me show you what that would look like .
So , if we take a look , say , at space itself — I can only show , of course , two dimensions on a screen .
Some of you guys will fix that one day , but anything that &apos;s not flat on a screen is a new dimension , goes smaller , smaller , smaller , and way down in the microscopic depths of space itself , this is the idea , you could have additional curled up dimensions — here is a little shape of a circle — so small that we don &apos;t see them .
But if you were a little ultra microscopic ant walking around , you could walk in the big dimensions that we all know about — that &apos;s like the grid part — but you could also access the tiny curled-up dimension that &apos;s so small that we can &apos;t see it with the naked eye or even with any of our most refined equipment .
But deeply tucked into the fabric of space itself , the idea is there could be more dimensions , as we see there .
Now that &apos;s an explanation about how the universe could have more dimensions than the ones that we see .
But what about the second question that I asked : does the theory actually work when you try to apply it to the real world ?
Well , it turns out that Einstein and Kaluza and many others worked on trying to refine this framework and apply it to the physics of the universe as was understood at the time , and , in detail , it didn &apos;t work .
In detail , for instance , they couldn &apos;t get the mass of the electron to work out correctly in this theory .
So many people worked on it , but by the &apos; 40s , certainly by the &apos; 50s , this strange but very compelling idea of how to unify the laws of physics had gone away .
Until something wonderful happened in our age .
In our era , a new approach to unify the laws of physics is being pursued by physicists such as myself , many others around the world , it &apos;s called superstring theory , as you were indicating .
And the wonderful thing is that superstring theory has nothing to do at first sight with this idea of extra dimensions , but when we study superstring theory , we find that it resurrects the idea in a sparkling , new form .
So , let me just tell you how that goes .
Superstring theory — what is it ?
Well , it &apos;s a theory that tries to answer the question : what are the basic , fundamental , indivisible , uncuttable constituents making up everything in the world around us ?
The idea is like this .
So , imagine we look at a familiar object , just a candle in a holder , and imagine that we want to figure out what it is made of .
So we go on a journey deep inside the object and examine the constituents .
So deep inside — we all know , you go sufficiently far down , you have atoms .
We also all know that atoms are not the end of the story .
They have little electrons that swarm around a central nucleus with neutrons and protons .
Even the neutrons and protons have smaller particles inside of them known as quarks .
That is where conventional ideas stop .
Here is the new idea of string theory .
Deep inside any of these particles , there is something else .
This something else is this dancing filament of energy .
It looks like a vibrating string — that &apos;s where the idea , string theory comes from .
And just like the vibrating strings that you just saw in a cello can vibrate in different patterns , these can also vibrate in different patterns .
They don &apos;t produce different musical notes .
Rather , they produce the different particles making up the world around us .
So if these ideas are correct , this is what the ultra-microscopic landscape of the universe looks like .
It &apos;s built up of a huge number of these little tiny filaments of vibrating energy , vibrating in different frequencies .
The different frequencies produce the different particles .
The different particles are responsible for all the richness in the world around us .
And there you see unification , because matter particles , electrons and quarks , radiation particles , photons , gravitons , are all built up from one entity .
So matter and the forces of nature all are put together under the rubric of vibrating strings .
And that &apos;s what we mean by a unified theory .
Now here is the catch .
When you study the mathematics of string theory , you find that it doesn &apos;t work in a universe that just has three dimensions of space .
It doesn &apos;t work in a universe with four dimensions of space , nor five , nor six .
Finally , you can study the equations , and show that it works only in a universe that has 10 dimensions of space and one dimension of time .
It leads us right back to this idea of Kaluza and Klein — that our world , when appropriately described , has more dimensions than the ones that we see .
Now you might think about that and say , well , OK , you know , if you have extra dimensions , and they &apos;re really tightly curled up , yeah , perhaps we won &apos;t see them , if they &apos;re small enough .
But if there &apos;s a little tiny civilization of green people walking around down there , and you make them small enough , and we won &apos;t see them either . That is true .
One of the other predictions of string theory — no , that &apos;s not one of the other predictions of string theory .
( Laughter ) But it raises the question : are we just trying to hide away these extra dimensions , or do they tell us something about the world ?
In the remaining time , I &apos;d like to tell you two features of them .
First is , many of us believe that these extra dimensions hold the answer to what perhaps is the deepest question in theoretical physics , theoretical science .
And that question is this : when we look around the world , as scientists have done for the last hundred years , there appear to be about 20 numbers that really describe our universe .
These are numbers like the mass of the particles , like electrons and quarks , the strength of gravity , the strength of the electromagnetic force — a list of about 20 numbers that have been measured with incredible precision , but nobody has an explanation for why the numbers have the particular values that they do .
Now , does string theory offer an answer ?
Not yet .
But we believe the answer for why those numbers have the values they do may rely on the form of the extra dimensions .
And the wonderful thing is , if those numbers had any other values than the known ones , the universe , as we know it , wouldn &apos;t exist .
This is a deep question .
Why are those numbers so finely tuned to allow stars to shine and planets to form , when we recognize that if you fiddle with those numbers — if I had 20 dials up here and I let you come up and fiddle with those numbers , almost any fiddling makes the universe disappear .
So can we explain those 20 numbers ?
And string theory suggests that those 20 numbers have to do with the extra dimensions .
Let me show you how .
So when we talk about the extra dimensions in string theory , it &apos;s not one extra dimension , as in the older ideas of Kaluza and Klein .
This is what string theory says about the extra dimensions .
They have a very rich , intertwined geometry .
This is an example of something known as a Calabi-Yau shape — name isn &apos;t all that important .
But , as you can see , the extra dimensions fold in on themselves and intertwine in a very interesting shape , interesting structure .
And the idea is that if this is what the extra dimensions look like , then the microscopic landscape of our universe all around us would look like this on the tiniest of scales .
When you swing your hand , you &apos;d be moving around these extra dimensions over and over again , but they &apos;re so small that we wouldn &apos;t know it .
So what is the physical implication , though , relevant to those 20 numbers ?
Consider this . If you look at the instrument , a French horn , notice that the vibrations of the airstreams are affected by the shape of the instrument .
Now in string theory , all the numbers are reflections of the way strings can vibrate .
So just as those airstreams are affected by the twists and turns in the instrument , strings themselves will be affected by the vibrational patterns in the geometry within which they are moving .
So let me bring some strings into the story .
And if you watch these little fellows vibrating around — they &apos;ll be there in a second — right there , notice that they way they vibrate is affected by the geometry of the extra dimensions .
So , if we knew exactly what the extra dimensions look like — we don &apos;t yet , but if we did — we should be able to calculate the allowed notes , the allowed vibrational patterns .
And if we could calculate the allowed vibrational patterns , we should be able to calculate those 20 numbers .
And if the answer that we get from our calculations agrees with the values of those numbers that have been determined through detailed and precise experimentation , this in many ways would be the first fundamental explanation for why the structure of the universe is the way it is .
Now , the second issue that I want to finish up with is : how might we test for these extra dimensions more directly ?
Is this just an interesting mathematical structure that might be able to explain some previously unexplained features of the world , or can we actually test for these extra dimensions ?
And we think — and this is , I think , very exciting — that in the next five years or so we may be able to test for the existence of these extra dimensions .
Here &apos;s how it goes . In CERN , Geneva , Switzerland , a machine is being built called the Large Hadron Collider .
It &apos;s a machine that will send particles around a tunnel , opposite directions , near the speed of light .
Every so often those particles will be aimed at each other , so there &apos;s a head-on collision .
The hope is that if the collision has enough energy , it may eject some of the debris from the collision from our dimensions , forcing it to enter into the other dimensions .
How would we know it ?
Well , we &apos;ll measure the amount of energy after the collision , compare it to the amount of energy before , and if there &apos;s less energy after the collision than before , this will be evidence that the energy has drifted away .
And if it drifts away in the right pattern that we can calculate , this will be evidence that the extra dimensions are there .
Let me show you that idea visually .
So , imagine we have a certain kind of particle called a graviton — that &apos;s the kind of debris we expect to be ejected out , if the extra dimensions are real .
But here &apos;s how the experiment will go .
You take these particles . You slam them together .
You slam them together , and if we are right , some of the energy of that collision will go into debris that flies off into these extra dimensions .
So this is the kind of experiment that we &apos;ll be looking at in the next five , seven to 10 years or so .
And if this experiment bears fruit , if we see that kind of particle ejected by noticing that there &apos;s less energy in our dimensions than when we began , this will show that the extra dimensions are real .
And to me this is a really remarkable story , and a remarkable opportunity . Going back to Newton with absolute space — didn &apos;t provide anything but an arena , a stage in which the events of the universe take place .
Einstein comes along and says , well , space and time can warp and curve — that &apos;s what gravity is .
And now string theory comes along and says , yes , gravity , quantum mechanics , electromagnetism , all together in one package , but only if the universe has more dimensions than the ones that we see .
And this is an experiment that may test for them in our lifetime .
Amazing possibility .
Thank you very much .
( Applause )
We &apos;ve been told to go out on a limb and say something surprising .
So I &apos;ll try and do that , but I want to start with two things that everyone already knows .
And the first one , in fact , is something that has been known for most of recorded history , and that is , that the planet Earth , or the solar system , or our environment or whatever , is uniquely suited to sustain our evolution — or creation , as it used to be thought — and our present existence , and most important , our future survival .
And , especially if you regard these two as deep truths to live by and to inform your life decisions , then they seem a little bit to conflict with each other .
Well , let &apos;s look around , you know , look in a random direction , and we see a wall , and chemical scum — ( Laughter ) and that &apos;s not typical of the universe at all .
So let &apos;s go out further , till we &apos;re outside the galaxy , and look back , and yeah , there &apos;s the huge galaxy with spiral arms laid out in front of us .
To get to a typical place , you &apos;ve got to go 1,000 times as far as that , into intergalactic space .
Can we have the lights off , please , so we can see it ?
Well , not quite , not quite perfect .
It &apos;s also very cold out there — less than three degrees above absolute zero .
And that is how un-typical this place is .
Well , look out even further than we &apos;ve just been — I mean from here , with a telescope — and you &apos;ll see things that look like stars , they &apos;re called quasars .
Billions of years ago and billions of light-years away , the material at the center of a galaxy collapsed towards a super-massive black hole .
And then intense magnetic fields directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse and some of the matter back out in the form of tremendous jets , which illuminated lobes with the brilliance of — I think it &apos;s a trillion — suns .
It would be a bit like experiencing a supernova explosion , but at point-blank range and for millions of years at a time .
And if that weren &apos;t amazing enough , the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time .
So , the laws of physics have this special property , that physical objects as unlike each other as they could possibly be , can nevertheless embody the same mathematical and causal structure and to do it more and more so over time .
One of them is matter , because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing .
And then thirdly , less tangible but just as essential for the open-ended creation of knowledge , of explanations , is evidence .
We happen to get round to testing , let &apos;s say , Newton &apos;s Law of Gravity , about 300 years ago .
As far as we know , evidence to discover the most fundamental truths of all the sciences is here just for the taking , on our planet .
Now that cube is very empty by human standards , but that still means that it contains over a million tons of matter .
And a million tons is enough to make , say , a self-contained space station , on which there &apos;s a colony of scientists that are devoted to creating an open-ended stream of knowledge , and so on .
All it takes is for a supernova to go off a few light-years away , and we &apos;ll all be dead !
Martin Rees has recently written a book about our vulnerability to all sorts of things , from astrophysics , to scientific experiments gone wrong , and most importantly , to terrorism with weapons of mass destruction .
Now , I don &apos;t think that probability is the right category to discuss this issue in , but I do agree with him about this : We can survive and we can fail to survive .
The danger is not at all unprecedented .
Now , I &apos;m a physicist , but I &apos;m not the right kind of physicist .
And according to that theory , it &apos;s already too late to avoid a disaster , because if it &apos;s true that our best option at the moment is to prevent CO2 emissions with something like the Kyoto Protocol , with its constraints on economic activity and its enormous cost of hundreds of billions of dollars , or whatever it is , then that is already a disaster by any reasonable measure .
( Laughter ) If medical science stopped seeking cures and concentrated on prevention only , then it would achieve very little of either .
At the moment , these things are fringe research ; they &apos;re not central to the human effort to face this problem , or problems in general .
And with problems that we are not aware of yet , the ability to put right — not the sheer good luck of avoiding indefinitely — is our only hope , not just of solving problems , but of survival .
This is the Large Hadron Collider .
It &apos;s 27 kilometers in circumference .
It &apos;s the biggest scientific experiment ever attempted .
Over 10,000 physicists and engineers from 85 countries around the world have come together over several decades to build this machine .
What we do is we accelerate protons — so , hydrogen nuclei — around 99.999999 percent the speed of light .
Right ? At that speed , they go around that 27 kilometers 11,000 times a second .
And we collide them with another beam of protons going in the opposite direction .
We collide them inside giant detectors .
They &apos;re essentially digital cameras .
And this is the one that I work on , ATLAS .
You get some sense of the size — you can just see these EU standard-size people underneath .
( Laughter ) You get some sense of the size : 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter , 7,000 tons .
And we re-create the conditions that were present less than a billionth of a second after the universe began up to 600 million times a second inside that detector — immense numbers .
And if you see those metal bits there — those are huge magnets that bend electrically charged particles , so it can measure how fast they &apos;re traveling .
This is a picture about a year ago .
Those magnets are in there .
And , again , a EU standard-size , real person , so you get some sense of the scale .
And it &apos;s in there that those mini-Big Bangs will be created , sometime in the summer this year .
And actually , this morning , I got an email saying that we &apos;ve just finished , today , building the last piece of ATLAS .
So as of today , it &apos;s finished . I &apos;d like to say that I planned that for TED , but I didn &apos;t . So it &apos;s been completed as of today .
( Applause ) Yeah , it &apos;s a wonderful achievement .
So , you might be asking , &quot; &quot; Why ?
Why create the conditions that were present less than a billionth of a second after the universe began ? &quot; &quot; Well , particle physicists are nothing if not ambitious .
And the aim of particle physics is to understand what everything &apos;s made of , and how everything sticks together .
And by everything I mean , of course , me and you , the Earth , the Sun , the 100 billion suns in our galaxy and the 100 billion galaxies in the observable universe .
Absolutely everything .
Now you might say , &quot; &quot; Well , OK , but why not just look at it ?
You know ? If you want to know what I &apos;m made of , let &apos;s look at me . &quot; &quot; Well , we found that as you look back in time , the universe gets hotter and hotter , denser and denser , and simpler and simpler .
Now , there &apos;s no real reason I &apos;m aware of for that , but that seems to be the case .
So , way back in the early times of the universe , we believe it was very simple and understandable .
All this complexity , all the way to these wonderful things — human brains — are a property of an old and cold and complicated universe .
Back at the start , in the first billionth of a second , we believe , or we &apos;ve observed , it was very simple .
It &apos;s almost like ...
imagine a snowflake in your hand , and you look at it , and it &apos;s an incredibly complicated , beautiful object . But as you heat it up , it &apos;ll melt into a pool of water , and you would be able to see that , actually , it was just made of H20 , water .
So it &apos;s in that same sense that we look back in time to understand what the universe is made of .
And , as of today , it &apos;s made of these things .
Just 12 particles of matter , stuck together by four forces of nature .
The quarks , these pink things , are the things that make up protons and neutrons that make up the atomic nuclei in your body .
The electron — the thing that goes around the atomic nucleus — held around in orbit , by the way , by the electromagnetic force that &apos;s carried by this thing , the photon .
The quarks are stuck together by other things called gluons .
And these guys , here , they &apos;re the weak nuclear force , probably the least familiar .
But , without it , the sun wouldn &apos;t shine .
And when the sun shines , you get copious quantities of these things , called neutrinos , pouring out .
Actually , if you just look at your thumbnail — about a square centimeter — there are something like 60 billion neutrinos per second from the sun , passing through every square centimeter of your body .
But you don &apos;t feel them , because the weak force is correctly named — very short range and very weak , so they just fly through you .
And these particles have been discovered over the last century , pretty much .
The first one , the electron , was discovered in 1897 , and the last one , this thing called the tau neutrino , in the year 2000 . Actually just — I was going to say , just up the road in Chicago . I know it &apos;s a big country , America , isn &apos;t it ?
Just up the road .
Relative to the universe , it &apos;s just up the road .
( Laughter ) So , this thing was discovered in the year 2000 , so it &apos;s a relatively recent picture .
One of the wonderful things , actually , I find , is that we &apos;ve discovered any of them , when you realize how tiny they are .
You know , they &apos;re a step in size from the entire observable universe .
So , 100 billion galaxies , 13.7 billion light years away — a step in size from that to Monterey , actually , is about the same as from Monterey to these things .
Absolutely , exquisitely minute , and yet we &apos;ve discovered pretty much the full set .
So , one of my most illustrious forebears at Manchester University , Ernest Rutherford , discoverer of the atomic nucleus , once said , &quot; &quot; All science is either physics or stamp collecting . &quot; &quot; Now , I don &apos;t think he meant to insult the rest of science , although he was from New Zealand , so it &apos;s possible .
( Laughter ) But what he meant was that what we &apos;ve done , really , is stamp collect there .
OK , we &apos;ve discovered the particles , but unless you understand the underlying reason for that pattern — you know , why it &apos;s built the way it is — really you &apos;ve done stamp collecting . You haven &apos;t done science .
Fortunately , we have probably one of the greatest scientific achievements of the twentieth century that underpins that pattern .
It &apos;s the Newton &apos;s laws , if you want , of particle physics .
It &apos;s called the standard model — beautifully simple mathematical equation .
You could stick it on the front of a T-shirt , which is always the sign of elegance .
This is it .
( Laughter ) I &apos;ve been a little disingenuous , because I &apos;ve expanded it out in all its gory detail .
This equation , though , allows you to calculate everything — other than gravity — that happens in the universe .
So , you want to know why the sky is blue , why atomic nuclei stick together — in principle , you &apos;ve got a big enough computer — why DNA is the shape it is .
In principle , you should be able to calculate it from that equation .
But there &apos;s a problem .
Can anyone see what it is ?
A bottle of champagne for anyone that tells me .
I &apos;ll make it easier , actually , by blowing one of the lines up .
Basically , each of these terms refers to some of the particles .
So those Ws there refer to the Ws , and how they stick together .
These carriers of the weak force , the Zs , the same .
But there &apos;s an extra symbol in this equation : H.
Right , H.
H stands for Higgs particle .
Higgs particles have not been discovered .
But they &apos;re necessary : they &apos;re necessary to make that mathematics work .
So all the exquisitely detailed calculations we can do with that wonderful equation wouldn &apos;t be possible without an extra bit .
So it &apos;s a prediction : a prediction of a new particle .
What does it do ?
Well , we had a long time to come up with good analogies .
And back in the 1980s , when we wanted the money for the LHC from the U.K. government , Margaret Thatcher , at the time , said , &quot; &quot; If you guys can explain , in language a politician can understand , what the hell it is that you &apos;re doing , you can have the money .
I want to know what this Higgs particle does . &quot; &quot; And we came up with this analogy , and it seemed to work .
Well , what the Higgs does is , it gives mass to the fundamental particles .
And the picture is that the whole universe — and that doesn &apos;t mean just space , it means me as well , and inside you — the whole universe is full of something called a Higgs field .
Higgs particles , if you will .
The analogy is that these people in a room are the Higgs particles .
Now when a particle moves through the universe , it can interact with these Higgs particles .
But imagine someone who &apos;s not very popular moves through the room .
Then everyone ignores them . They can just pass through the room very quickly , essentially at the speed of light . They &apos;re massless .
And imagine someone incredibly important and popular and intelligent walks into the room .
They &apos;re surrounded by people , and their passage through the room is impeded .
It &apos;s almost like they get heavy . They get massive .
And that &apos;s exactly the way the Higgs mechanism works .
The picture is that the electrons and the quarks in your body and in the universe that we see around us are heavy , in a sense , and massive , because they &apos;re surrounded by Higgs particles .
They &apos;re interacting with the Higgs field .
If that picture &apos;s true , then we have to discover those Higgs particles at the LHC .
If it &apos;s not true — because it &apos;s quite a convoluted mechanism , although it &apos;s the simplest we &apos;ve been able to think of — then whatever does the job of the Higgs particles we know have to turn up at the LHC .
So , that &apos;s one of the prime reasons we built this giant machine .
I &apos;m glad you recognize Margaret Thatcher .
Actually , I thought about making it more culturally relevant , but — ( Laughter ) anyway .
So that &apos;s one thing .
That &apos;s essentially a guarantee of what the LHC will find .
There are many other things . You &apos;ve heard many of the big problems in particle physics .
One of them you heard about : dark matter , dark energy .
There &apos;s another issue , which is that the forces in nature — it &apos;s quite beautiful , actually — seem , as you go back in time , they seem to change in strength .
Well , they do change in strength .
So , the electromagnetic force , the force that holds us together , gets stronger as you go to higher temperatures .
The strong force , the strong nuclear force , which sticks nuclei together , gets weaker . And what you see is the standard model — you can calculate how these change — is the forces , the three forces , other than gravity , almost seem to come together at one point .
It &apos;s almost as if there was one beautiful kind of super-force , back at the beginning of time .
But they just miss .
Now there &apos;s a theory called super-symmetry , which doubles the number of particles in the standard model , which , at first sight , doesn &apos;t sound like a simplification .
But actually , with this theory , we find that the forces of nature do seem to unify together , back at the Big Bang — absolutely beautiful prophecy . The model wasn &apos;t built to do that , but it seems to do it .
Also , those super-symmetric particles are very strong candidates for the dark matter .
So a very compelling theory that &apos;s really mainstream physics .
And if I was to put money on it , I would put money on — in a very unscientific way — that that these things would also crop up at the LHC .
Many other things that the LHC could discover .
But in the last few minutes , I just want to give you a different perspective of what I think — what particle physics really means to me — particle physics and cosmology .
And that &apos;s that I think it &apos;s given us a wonderful narrative — almost a creation story , if you &apos;d like — about the universe , from modern science over the last few decades .
And I &apos;d say that it deserves , in the spirit of Wade Davis &apos; talk , to be at least put up there with these wonderful creation stories of the peoples of the high Andes and the frozen north .
This is a creation story , I think , equally as wonderful .
The story goes like this : we know that the universe began 13.7 billion years ago , in an immensely hot , dense state , much smaller than a single atom .
It began to expand about a million , billion , billion , billion billionth of a second — I think I got that right — after the Big Bang .
Gravity separated away from the other forces .
The universe then underwent an exponential expansion called inflation .
In about the first billionth of a second or so , the Higgs field kicked in , and the quarks and the gluons and the electrons that make us up got mass .
The universe continued to expand and cool .
After about a few minutes , there was hydrogen and helium in the universe . That &apos;s all .
The universe was about 75 percent hydrogen , 25 percent helium . It still is today .
It continued to expand about 300 million years .
Then light began to travel through the universe .
It was big enough to be transparent to light , and that &apos;s what we see in the cosmic microwave background that George Smoot described as looking at the face of God .
After about 400 million years , the first stars formed , and that hydrogen , that helium , then began to cook into the heavier elements .
So the elements of life — carbon , and oxygen and iron , all the elements that we need to make us up — were cooked in those first generations of stars , which then ran out of fuel , exploded , threw those elements back into the universe .
They then re-collapsed into another generation of stars and planets .
And on some of those planets , the oxygen , which had been created in that first generation of stars , could fuse with hydrogen to form water , liquid water on the surface .
On at least one , and maybe only one of those planets , primitive life evolved , which evolved over millions of years into things that walked upright and left footprints about three and a half million years ago in the mud flats of Tanzania , and eventually left a footprint on another world .
And built this civilization , this wonderful picture , that turned the darkness into light , and you can see the civilization from space .
As one of my great heroes , Carl Sagan , said , these are the things — and actually , not only these , but I was looking around — these are the things , like Saturn V rockets , and Sputnik , and DNA , and literature and science — these are the things that hydrogen atoms do when given 13.7 billion years .
Absolutely remarkable .
And , the laws of physics . Right ?
So , the right laws of physics — they &apos;re beautifully balanced .
If the weak force had been a little bit different , then carbon and oxygen wouldn &apos;t be stable inside the hearts of stars , and there would be none of that in the universe .
And I think that &apos;s a wonderful and significant story .
50 years ago , I couldn &apos;t have told that story , because we didn &apos;t know it .
It makes me really feel that that civilization — which , as I say , if you believe the scientific creation story , has emerged purely as a result of the laws of physics , and a few hydrogen atoms — then I think , to me anyway , it makes me feel incredibly valuable .
So that &apos;s the LHC .
The LHC is certainly , when it turns on in summer , going to write the next chapter of that book .
And I &apos;m certainly looking forward with immense excitement to it being turned on .
Thanks .
( Applause )
One way to change our genes is to make new ones , as Craig Venter has so elegantly shown .
Another is to change our lifestyles .
And what we &apos;re learning is how powerful and dynamic these changes can be , that you don &apos;t have to wait very long to see the benefits .
When you eat healthier , manage stress , exercise and love more , your brain actually gets more blood flow and more oxygen .
But more than that , your brain gets measurably bigger .
Things that were thought impossible just a few years ago can actually be measured now .
This was figured out by Robin Williams a few years before the rest of us .
Now , there &apos;s some things that you can do to make your brain grow new brain cells .
Some of my favorite things , like chocolate and tea , blueberries , alcohol in moderation , stress management and cannabinoids found in marijuana .
I &apos;m just the messenger .
( Laughter ) What were we just talking about ? ( Laughter )
And other things that can make it worse , that can cause you to lose brain cells .
The usual suspects , like saturated fat and sugar , nicotine , opiates , cocaine , too much alcohol and chronic stress .
Your skin gets more blood flow when you change your lifestyle , so you age less quickly . Your skin doesn &apos;t wrinkle as much .
Your heart gets more blood flow .
We &apos;ve shown that you can actually reverse heart disease .
That these clogged arteries that you see on the upper left , after only a year become measurably less clogged .
And the cardiac PET scan shown on the lower left , the blue means no blood flow .
A year later — orange and white is maximum blood flow .
We &apos;ve shown you may be able to stop and reverse the progression of early prostate cancer and , by extension , breast cancer , simply by making these changes .
We &apos;ve found that tumor growth in vitro was inhibited 70 percent in the group that made these changes , whereas only nine percent in the comparison group .
These differences were highly significant .
Even your sexual organs get more blood flow , so you increase sexual potency .
One of the most effective anti-smoking ads was done by the Department of Health Services , showing that nicotine , which constricts your arteries , can cause a heart attack or a stroke , but it also causes impotence .
Half of guys who smoke are impotent .
How sexy is that ?
Now we &apos;re also about to publish a study — the first study showing you can change gene expression in men with prostate cancer .
This is what &apos;s called a heat map — and the different colors — and along the side , on the right , are different genes .
And we found that over 500 genes were favorably changed — in effect , turning on the good genes , the disease-preventing genes , turning off the disease-promoting genes .
And so these findings I think are really very powerful , giving many people new hope and new choices .
And companies like Navigenics and DNA Direct and 23andMe , that are giving you your genetic profiles , are giving some people a sense of , &quot; &quot; Gosh , well , what can I do about it ? &quot; &quot; Well , our genes are not our fate , and if we make these changes — they &apos;re a predisposition — but if we make bigger changes than we might have made otherwise , we can actually change how our genes are expressed .
Thank you .
( Applause )
As a particle physicist , I study the elementary particles and how they interact on the most fundamental level .
For most of my research career , I &apos;ve been using accelerators , such as the electron accelerator at Stanford University , just up the road , to study things on the smallest scale .
But more recently , I &apos;ve been turning my attention to the universe on the largest scale .
Because , as I &apos;ll explain to you , the questions on the smallest and the largest scale are actually very connected .
So I &apos;m going to tell you about our twenty-first-century view of the universe , what it &apos;s made of and what the big questions in the physical sciences are — at least some of the big questions .
So , recently , we have realized that the ordinary matter in the universe — and by ordinary matter , I mean you , me , the planets , the stars , the galaxies — the ordinary matter makes up only a few percent of the content of the universe .
Almost a quarter , or approximately a quarter of the matter in the universe , is stuff that &apos;s invisible .
By invisible , I mean it doesn &apos;t absorb in the electromagnetic spectrum .
It doesn &apos;t emit in the electromagnetic spectrum . It doesn &apos;t reflect .
It doesn &apos;t interact with the electromagnetic spectrum , which is what we use to detect things .
It doesn &apos;t interact at all . So how do we know it &apos;s there ?
We know it &apos;s there by its gravitational effects .
In fact , this dark matter dominates the gravitational effects in the universe on a large scale , and I &apos;ll be telling you about the evidence for that .
What about the rest of the pie ?
The rest of the pie is a very mysterious substance called dark energy .
More about that later , OK .
So for now , let &apos;s turn to the evidence for dark matter .
In these galaxies , especially in a spiral galaxy like this , most of the mass of the stars is concentrated in the middle of the galaxy .
This huge mass of all these stars keeps stars in circular orbits in the galaxy .
So we have these stars going around in circles like this .
As you can imagine , even if you know physics , this should be intuitive , OK — that stars that are closer to the mass in the middle will be rotating at a higher speed than those that are further out here , OK .
So what you would expect is that if you measured the orbital speed of the stars , that they should be slower on the edges than on the inside .
In other words , if we measured speed as a function of distance — this is the only time I &apos;m going to show a graph , OK — we would expect that it goes down as the distance increases from the center of the galaxy .
When those measurements are made , instead what we find is that the speed is basically constant , as a function of distance .
If it &apos;s constant , that means that the stars out here are feeling the gravitational effects of matter that we do not see .
In fact , this galaxy and every other galaxy appears to be embedded in a cloud of this invisible dark matter .
And this cloud of matter is much more spherical than the galaxy themselves , and it extends over a much wider range than the galaxy .
So we see the galaxy and fixate on that , but it &apos;s actually a cloud of dark matter that &apos;s dominating the structure and the dynamics of this galaxy .
Galaxies themselves are not strewn randomly in space ; they tend to cluster .
And this is an example of a very , actually , famous cluster , the Coma cluster .
And there are thousands of galaxies in this cluster .
They &apos;re the white , fuzzy , elliptical things here .
So these galaxy clusters — we take a snapshot now , we take a snapshot in a decade , it &apos;ll look identical .
But these galaxies are actually moving at extremely high speeds .
They &apos;re moving around in this gravitational potential well of this cluster , OK .
So all of these galaxies are moving .
We can measure the speeds of these galaxies , their orbital velocities , and figure out how much mass is in this cluster .
And again , what we find is that there is much more mass there than can be accounted for by the galaxies that we see .
Or if we look in other parts of the electromagnetic spectrum , we see that there &apos;s a lot of gas in this cluster , as well .
But that cannot account for the mass either .
In fact , there appears to be about ten times as much mass here in the form of this invisible or dark matter as there is in the ordinary matter , OK .
It would be nice if we could see this dark matter a little bit more directly .
I &apos;m just putting this big , blue blob on there , OK , to try to remind you that it &apos;s there .
Can we see it more visually ? Yes , we can .
And so let me lead you through how we can do this .
So here &apos;s an observer : it could be an eye ; it could be a telescope .
And suppose there &apos;s a galaxy out here in the universe .
How do we see that galaxy ?
A ray of light leaves the galaxy and travels through the universe for perhaps billions of years before it enters the telescope or your eye .
Now , how do we deduce where the galaxy is ?
Well , we deduce it by the direction that the ray is traveling as it enters our eye , right ?
We say , the ray of light came this way ; the galaxy must be there , OK .
Now , suppose I put in the middle a cluster of galaxies — and don &apos;t forget the dark matter , OK .
Now , if we consider a different ray of light , one going off like this , we now need to take into account what Einstein predicted when he developed general relativity .
And that was that the gravitational field , due to mass , will deflect not only the trajectory of particles , but will deflect light itself .
So this light ray will not continue in a straight line , but would rather bend and could end up going into our eye .
Where will this observer see the galaxy ?
You can respond . Up , right ?
We extrapolate backwards and say the galaxy is up here .
Is there any other ray of light that could make into the observer &apos;s eye from that galaxy ?
Yes , great . I see people going down like this .
So a ray of light could go down , be bent up into the observer &apos;s eye , and the observer sees a ray of light here .
Now , take into account the fact that we live in a three-dimensional universe , OK , a three-dimensional space .
Are there any other rays of light that could make it into the eye ?
Yes ! The rays would lie on a — I &apos;d like to see — yeah , on a cone .
So there &apos;s a whole ray of light — rays of light on a cone — that will all be bent by that cluster and make it into the observer &apos;s eye .
If there is a cone of light coming into my eye , what do I see ?
A circle , a ring . It &apos;s called an Einstein ring . Einstein predicted that , OK .
Now , it will only be a perfect ring if the source , the deflector and the eyeball , in this case , are all in a perfectly straight line .
If they &apos;re slightly skewed , we &apos;ll see a different image .
Now , you can do an experiment tonight over the reception , OK , to figure out what that image will look like .
Because it turns out that there is a kind of lens that we can devise , that has the right shape to produce this kind of effect .
We call this gravitational lensing .
And so , this is your instrument , OK .
( Laughter ) .
But ignore the top part .
It &apos;s the base that I want you to concentrate , OK .
So , actually , at home , whenever we break a wineglass , I save the bottom , take it over to the machine shop .
We shave it off , and I have a little gravitational lens , OK .
So it &apos;s got the right shape to produce the lensing .
And so the next thing you need to do in your experiment is grab a napkin . I grabbed a piece of graph paper — I &apos;m a physicist . ( Laughter ) So , a napkin . Draw a little model galaxy in the middle .
And now put the lens over the galaxy , and what you &apos;ll find is that you &apos;ll see a ring , an Einstein ring .
Now , move the base off to the side , and the ring will split up into arcs , OK .
And you can put it on top of any image .
On the graph paper , you can see how all the lines on the graph paper have been distorted .
And again , this is a kind of an accurate model of what happens with the gravitational lensing .
OK , so the question is : do we see this in the sky ?
Do we see arcs in the sky when we look at , say , a cluster of galaxies ?
And the answer is yes .
And so , here &apos;s an image from the Hubble Space Telescope .
Many of the images you are seeing are earlier from the Hubble Space Telescope .
Well , first of all , for the golden shape galaxies — those are the galaxies in the cluster .
They &apos;re the ones that are embedded in that sea of dark matter that are causing the bending of the light to cause these optical illusions , or mirages , practically , of the background galaxies .
So the streaks that you see , all these streaks , are actually distorted images of galaxies that are much further away .
So what we can do , then , is based on how much distortion we see in those images , we can calculate how much mass there must be in this cluster .
And it &apos;s an enormous amount of mass .
And also , you can tell by eye , by looking at this , that these arcs are not centered on individual galaxies .
They are centered on some more spread out structure , and that is the dark matter in which the cluster is embedded , OK .
So this is the closest you can get to kind of seeing at least the effects of the dark matter with your naked eye .
OK , so , a quick review then , to see that you &apos;re following .
So the evidence that we have that a quarter of the universe is dark matter — this gravitationally attracting stuff — is that galaxies , the speed with which stars orbiting galaxies is much too large ; it must be embedded in dark matter .
The speed with which galaxies within clusters are orbiting is much too large ; it must be embedded in dark matter .
And we see these gravitational lensing effects , these distortions that say that , again , clusters are embedded in dark matter .
OK . So now , let &apos;s turn to dark energy .
So to understand the evidence for dark energy , we need to discuss something that Stephen Hawking referred to in the previous session .
And that is the fact that space itself is expanding .
So if we imagine a section of our infinite universe — and so I &apos;ve put down four spiral galaxies , OK — and imagine that you put down a set of tape measures , so every line on here corresponds to a tape measure , horizontal or vertical , for measuring where things are .
If you could do this , what you would find that with each passing day , each passing year , each passing billions of years , OK , the distance between galaxies is getting greater .
And it &apos;s not because galaxies are moving away from each other through space .
They &apos;re not necessarily moving through space .
They &apos;re moving away from each other because space itself is getting bigger , OK .
That &apos;s what the expansion of the universe or space means .
So they &apos;re moving further apart .
Now , what Stephen Hawking mentioned , as well , is that after the Big Bang , space expanded at a very rapid rate .
But because gravitationally attracting matter is embedded in this space , it tends to slow down the expansion of the space , OK .
So the expansion slows down with time .
So , in the last century , OK , people debated about whether this expansion of space would continue forever ; whether it would slow down , you know , will be slowing down , but continue forever ; slow down and stop , asymptotically stop ; or slow down , stop , and then reverse , so it starts to contract again .
So a little over a decade ago , two groups of physicists and astronomers set out to measure the rate at which the expansion of space was slowing down , OK .
By how much less is it expanding today , compared to , say , a couple of billion years ago ?
The startling answer to this question , OK , from these experiments , was that space is expanding at a faster rate today than it was a few billion years ago , OK .
So the expansion of space is actually speeding up .
This was a completely surprising result .
There is no persuasive theoretical argument for why this should happen , OK .
No one was predicting ahead of time this is what &apos;s going to be found .
It was the opposite of what was expected .
So we need something to be able to explain that .
Now it turns out , in the mathematics , you can put it in as a term that &apos;s an energy , but it &apos;s a completely different type of energy from anything we &apos;ve ever seen before .
We call it dark energy , and it has this effect of causing space to expand .
But we don &apos;t have a good motivation for putting it in there at this point , OK .
So it &apos;s really unexplained as to why we need to put it in .
Now , so at this point , then , what I want to really emphasize to you , is that , first of all , dark matter and dark energy are completely different things , OK .
There are really two mysteries out there as to what makes up most of the universe , and they have very different effects .
Dark matter , because it gravitationally attracts , it tends to encourage the growth of structure , OK .
So clusters of galaxies will tend to form , because of all this gravitational attraction .
Dark energy , on the other hand , is putting more and more space between the galaxies , makes it , the gravitational attraction between them decrease , and so it impedes the growth of structure .
So by looking at things like clusters of galaxies , and how they — their number density , how many there are as a function of time — we can learn about how dark matter and dark energy compete against each other in structure forming .
In terms of dark matter , I said that we don &apos;t have any , you know , really persuasive argument for dark energy .
Do we have anything for dark matter ? And the answer is yes .
We have well-motivated candidates for the dark matter .
Now , what do I mean by well motivated ?
I mean that we have mathematically consistent theories that were actually introduced to explain a completely different phenomenon , OK , things that I haven &apos;t even talked about , that each predict the existence of a very weakly interacting , new particle .
So , this is exactly what you want in physics : where a prediction comes out of a mathematically consistent theory that was actually developed for something else .
But we don &apos;t know if either of those are actually the dark matter candidate , OK .
One or both , who knows ? Or it could be something completely different .
Now , we look for these dark matter particles because , after all , they are here in the room , OK , and they didn &apos;t come in the door .
They just pass through anything .
They can come through the building , through the Earth — they &apos;re so non-interacting .
So one way to look for them is to build detectors that are extremely sensitive to a dark matter particle coming through and bumping it .
So a crystal that will ring if that happens .
So one of my colleagues up the road and his collaborators have built such a detector .
And they &apos;ve put it deep down in an iron mine in Minnesota , OK , deep under the ground , and in fact , in the last couple of days announced the most sensitive results so far .
They haven &apos;t seen anything , OK , but it puts limits on what the mass and the interaction strength of these dark matter particles are .
There &apos;s going to be a satellite telescope launched later this year and it will look towards the middle of the galaxy , to see if we can see dark matter particles annihilating and producing gamma rays that could be detected with this .
The Large Hadron Collider , a particle physics accelerator , that we &apos;ll be turning on later this year .
It is possible that dark matter particles might be produced at the Large Hadron Collider .
Now , because they are so non-interactive , they will actually escape the detector , so their signature will be missing energy , OK .
Now , unfortunately , there is a lot of new physics whose signature could be missing energy , so it will be hard to tell the difference .
And finally , for future endeavors , there are telescopes being designed specifically to address the questions of dark matter and dark energy — ground-based telescopes , and there are three space-based telescopes that are in competition right now to be launched to investigate dark matter and dark energy .
So in terms of the big questions : what is dark matter ? What is dark energy ?
The big questions facing physics .
And I &apos;m sure you have lots of questions , which I very much look forward to addressing over the next 72 hours , while I &apos;m here . Thank you .
( Applause )
I want to start off by saying , Houston , we have a problem .
We &apos;re entering a second generation of no progress in terms of human flight in space . In fact , we &apos;ve regressed .
We stand a very big chance of losing our ability to inspire our youth to go out and continue this very important thing that we as a species have always done .
And that is , instinctively we &apos;ve gone out and climbed over difficult places , went to more hostile places , and found out later , maybe to our surprise , that that &apos;s the reason we survived .
And I feel very strongly that it &apos;s not good enough for us to have generations of kids that think that it &apos;s OK to look forward to a better version of a cell phone with a video in it .
They need to look forward to exploration ; they need to look forward to colonization ; they need to look forward to breakthroughs .
We need to inspire them , because they need to lead us and help us survive in the future .
I &apos;m particularly troubled that what NASA &apos;s doing right now with this new Bush doctrine to — for this next decade and a half — oh shoot , I screwed up .
We have real specific instructions here not to talk about politics .
( Laughter ) What we &apos;re looking forward to is — ( Applause ) what we &apos;re looking forward to is not only the inspiration of our children , but the current plan right now is not really even allowing the most creative people in this country — the Boeing &apos;s and Lockheed &apos;s space engineers — to go out and take risks and try new stuff .
We &apos;re going to go back to the moon ... 50 years later ?
And we &apos;re going to do it very specifically planned to not learn anything new .
I &apos;m really troubled by that . But anyway that &apos;s — the basis of the thing that I want to share with you today , though , is that right back to where we inspire people who will be our great leaders later .
That &apos;s the theme of my next 15 minutes here .
And I think that the inspiration begins when you &apos;re very young : three-year-olds , up to 12- , 14-year-olds .
What they look at is the most important thing .
Let &apos;s take a snapshot at aviation .
And there was a wonderful little short four-year time period when marvelous things happened .
It started in 1908 , when the Wright brothers flew in Paris , and everybody said , &quot; &quot; Ooh , hey , I can do that . &quot; &quot; There &apos;s only a few people that have flown in early 1908 . In four years , 39 countries had hundreds of airplanes , thousand of pilots . Airplanes were invented by natural selection .
Now you can say that intelligent design designs our airplanes of today , but there was no intelligent design really designing those early airplanes .
There were probably at least 30,000 different things tried , and when they crash and kill the pilot , don &apos;t try that again .
The ones that flew and landed OK because there were no trained pilots who had good flying qualities by definition .
So we , by making a whole bunch of attempts , thousands of attempts , in that four-year time period , we invented the concepts of the airplanes that we fly today . And that &apos;s why they &apos;re so safe , as we gave it a lot of chance to find what &apos;s good .
That has not happened at all in space flying .
There &apos;s only been two concepts tried — two by the U.S. and one by the Russians .
Well , who was inspired during that time period ?
Aviation Week asked me to make a list of who I thought were the movers and shakers of the first 100 years of aviation .
And I wrote them down and I found out later that every one of them was a little kid in that wonderful renaissance of aviation .
Well , what happened when I was a little kid was — some pretty heavy stuff too .
The jet age started : the missile age started . Von Braun was on there showing how to go to Mars — and this was before Sputnik .
And this was at a time when Mars was a hell of a lot more interesting than it is now . We thought there &apos;d be animals there ; we knew there were plants there ; the colors change , right ?
But , you know , NASA screwed that up because they &apos;ve sent these robots and they &apos;ve landed it only in the deserts .
( Laughter ) If you look at what happened — this little black line is as fast as man ever flew , and the red line is top-of-the-line military fighters and the blue line is commercial air transport .
You notice here &apos;s a big jump when I was a little kid — and I think that had something to do with giving me the courage to go out and try something that other people weren &apos;t having the courage to try .
Well , what did I do when I was a kid ?
I didn &apos;t do the hotrods and the girls and the dancing and , well , we didn &apos;t have drugs in those days . But I did competition model airplanes .
I spent about seven years during the Vietnam War flight-testing airplanes for the Air Force .
And then I went in and I had a lot of fun building airplanes that people could build in their garages .
And some 3,000 of those are flying . Of course , one of them is around the world Voyager . I founded another company in &apos; 82 , which is my company now .
And we have developed more than one new type of airplane every year since 1982 .
And there &apos;s a lot of them that I actually can &apos;t show you on this chart .
The most impressive airplane ever , I believe , was designed only a dozen years after the first operational jet .
Stayed in service till it was too rusty to fly , taken out of service .
We retreated in &apos; 98 back to something that was developed in &apos; 56 . What ?
The most impressive spaceship ever , I believe , was a Grumman Lunar Lander . It was a — you know , it landed on the moon , take off of the moon , didn &apos;t need any maintenance guys — that &apos;s kind of cool .
We &apos;ve lost that capability . We abandoned it in &apos; 72 .
This thing was designed three years after Gagarin first flew in space in 1961 .
Three years , and we can &apos;t do that now . Crazy .
Talk very briefly about innovation cycles , things that grow , have a lot of activity ; they die out when they &apos;re replaced by something else .
These things tend to happen every 25 years .
40 years long , with an overlap . You can put that statement on all kinds of different technologies . The interesting thing — by the way , the speed here , excuse me , higher-speed travel is the title of these innovation cycles . There is none here .
These two new airplanes are the same speed as the DC8 that was done in 1958 .
Here &apos;s the biggie , and that is , you don &apos;t have innovation cycles if the government develops and the government uses it .
You know , a good example , of course , is the DARPA net .
Computers were used for artillery first , then IRS .
But when we got it , now you have all the level of activity , all the benefit from it . Private sector has to do it .
Keep that in mind . I put down innovation — I &apos;ve looked for innovation cycles in space ; I found none .
The very first year , starting when Gagarin went in space , and a few weeks later Alan Shepherd , there were five manned space flights in the world — the very first year .
In 2003 , everyone that the United States sent to space was killed .
There were only three or four flights in 2003 .
In 2004 , there were only two flights : two Russian Soyuz flights to the international manned station . And I had to fly three in Mojave with my little group of a couple dozen people in order to get to a total of five , which was the number the same year back in 1961 .
There is no growth . There &apos;s no activity . There &apos;s no nothing .
This is a picture here taken from SpaceShipOne .
This is a picture here taken from orbit .
Our goal is to make it so that you can see this picture and really enjoy that .
We know how to do it for sub-orbital flying now , do it safe enough — at least as safe as the early airlines — so that can be done .
And I think I want to talk a little bit about why we had the courage to go out and try that as a small company .
Well , first of all , what &apos;s going to happen next ?
The first industry will be a high volume , a lot of players .
There &apos;s another one announced just last week .
And it will be sub-orbital . And the reason it has to be sub-orbital is , there is not solutions for adequate safety to fly the public to orbit . The governments have been doing this — three governments have been doing this for 45 years , and still four percent of the people that have left the atmosphere have died .
That &apos;s — You don &apos;t want to run a business with that kind of a safety record .
It &apos;ll be very high volume ; we think 100,000 people will fly by 2020 .
I can &apos;t tell you when this will start , because I don &apos;t want my competition to know my schedule .
But I think once it does , we will find solutions , and very quickly , you &apos;ll see those resort hotels in orbit .
And that real easy thing to do , which is a swing around the moon so you have this cool view . And that will be really cool .
Because the moon doesn &apos;t have an atmosphere — you can do an elliptical orbit and miss it by 10 feet if you want .
Oh , it &apos;s going to be so much fun .
( Laughter ) OK . My critics say , &quot; &quot; Hey , Rutan &apos;s just spending a lot of these billionaires &apos; money for joyrides for billionaires .
What &apos;s this ? This is not a transportation system ; it &apos;s just for fun . &quot; &quot; And I used to be bothered by that , and then I got to thinking , well , wait a minute . I bought my first Apple computer in 1978 and I bought it because I could say , &quot; &quot; I got a computer at my house and you don &apos;t .
&apos;What do you use it for ? &apos; Come over . It does Frogger . &quot; &quot; OK .
( Laughter ) Not the bank &apos;s computer or Lockheed &apos;s computer , but the home computer was for games .
For a whole decade it was for fun — we didn &apos;t even know what it was for .
But what happened , the fact that we had this big industry , big development , big improvement and capability and so on , and they get out there in enough homes — we were ripe for a new invention .
And the inventor is in this audience .
Al Gore invented the Internet and because of that , something that we used for a whole year — excuse me — a whole decade for fun , became everything — our commerce , our research , our communication and , if we let the Google guys think for another couple weekends , we can add a dozen more things to the list . ( Laughter ) And it won &apos;t be very long before you won &apos;t be able to convince kids that we didn &apos;t always have computers in our homes .
So fun is defendable .
OK , I want to show you kind of a busy chart , but in it is my prediction with what &apos;s going to happen .
And in it also brings up another point , right here .
There &apos;s a group of people that have come forward — and you don &apos;t know all of them — but the ones that have come forward were inspired as young children , this little three- to 15-year-old age , by us going to orbit and going to the moon here , right in this time period .
Paul Allen , Elan Musk , Richard Branson , Jeff Bezos , the Ansari family , which is now funding the Russians &apos; sub-orbital thing , Bob Bigelow , a private space station , and Carmack .
These people are taking money and putting it in an interesting area , and I think it &apos;s a lot better than they put it in an area of a better cell phone or something — but they &apos;re putting it in very — areas and this will lead us into this kind of capability , and it will lead us into the next really big thing and it will allow us to explore . And I think eventually it will allow us to colonize and to keep us from going extinct .
They were inspired by big progress . But look at the progress that &apos;s going on after that .
There were a couple of examples here .
The military fighters had a — highest-performance military airplane was the SR71 . It went a whole life cycle , got too rusty to fly , and was taken out of service . The Concorde doubled the speed for airline travel .
It went a whole life cycle without competition , took out of service . And we &apos;re stuck back here with the same kind of capability for military fighters and commercial airline travel that we had back in the late &apos; 50s .
But something is out there to inspire our kids now .
And I &apos;m talking about if you &apos;ve got a baby now , or if you &apos;ve got a 10-year-old now .
What &apos;s out there is there &apos;s something really interesting going to happen here .
Relatively soon , you &apos;ll be able to buy a ticket and fly higher and faster than the highest-performance military operational airplane . It &apos;s never happened before .
The fact that they have stuck here with this kind of performance has been , well , you know , you win the war in 12 minutes ; why do you need something better ?
But I think when you guys start buying tickets and flying sub-orbital flights to space , very soon — wait a minute , what &apos;s happening here , we &apos;ll have military fighters with sub-orbital capability , and I think very soon this .
But the interesting thing about it is the commercial guys are going to go first .
OK , I look forward to a new &quot; &quot; capitalist &apos;s space race , &quot; &quot; let &apos;s call it .
You remember the space race in the &apos; 60s was for national prestige , because we lost the first two milestones .
We didn &apos;t lose them technically . The fact that we had the hardware to put something in orbit when we let Von Braun fly it — you can argue that &apos;s not a technical loss .
Sputnik wasn &apos;t a technical loss , but it was a prestige loss .
America — the world saw America as not being the leader in technology , and that was a very strong thing .
And then we flew Alan Shepherd weeks after Gagarin , not months or decades , or whatever . So we had the capability .
But America lost . We lost . And because of that , we made a big jump to recover it .
Well , again , what &apos;s interesting here is we &apos;ve lost to the Russians on the first couple of milestones already .
You cannot buy a ticket commercially to fly into space in America — can &apos;t do it . You can buy it in Russia .
You can fly with Russian hardware . This is available because a Russian space program is starving , and it &apos;s nice for them to get 20 million here and there to take one of the seats .
It &apos;s commercial . It can be defined as space tourism . They are also offering a trip to go on this whip around the moon , like Apollo 8 was done .
100 million bucks — hey , I can go to the moon .
But , you know , would you have thought back in the &apos; 60s , when the space race was going on , that the first commercial capitalist-like thing to do to buy a ticket to go to the moon would be in Russian hardware ?
And would you have thought , would the Russians have thought , that when they first go to the moon in their developed hardware , the guys inside won &apos;t be Russians ? Maybe it &apos;ll probably be a Japanese or an American billionaire ? Well , that &apos;s weird : you know , it really is .
But anyway , I think we need to beat them again .
I think what we &apos;ll do is we &apos;ll see a successful , very successful , private space flight industry . Whether we &apos;re first or not really doesn &apos;t matter .
The Russians actually flew a supersonic transport before the Concorde .
And then they flew a few cargo flights , and took it out of service .
I think you kind of see the same kind of parallel when the commercial stuff is offered .
OK , we &apos;ll talk just a little bit about commercial development for human space flight .
This little thing says here : five times what NASA &apos;s doing by 2020 . I want to tell you , already there &apos;s about 1.5 billion to 1.7 billion investment in private space flight that is not government at all — already , worldwide . If you read — if you Google it , you &apos;ll find about half of that money , but there &apos;s twice of that being committed out there — not spent yet , but being committed and planned for the next few years . Hey , that &apos;s pretty big .
I &apos;m predicting , though , as profitable as this industry is going to be — and it certainly is profitable when you fly people at 200,000 dollars on something that you can actually operate at a tenth of that cost , or less — this is going to be very profitable .
I predict , also , that the investment that will flow into this will be somewhere around half of what the U.S. taxpayer spends for NASA &apos;s manned spacecraft work .
And every dollar that flows into that will be spent more efficiently by a factor of 10 to 15 . And what that means is before we know it , the progress in human space flight , with no taxpayer dollars , will be at a level of about five times as much as the current NASA budgets for human space flight .
And that is because it &apos;s us . It &apos;s private industry .
You should never depend on the government to do this sort of stuff — and we &apos;ve done it for a long time . The NACA , before NASA , never developed an airliner and never ran an airline .
But NASA is developing the space liner , always has , and runs the only space line , OK . And we &apos;ve shied away from it because we &apos;re afraid of it . But starting back in June of 2004 , when I showed that a little group out there actually can do it , can get a start with it , everything changed after that time .
OK , thank you very much .
( Applause )
( Music ) Roughly 43,000 years ago , a young cave bear died in the rolling hills on the northwest border of modern day Slovenia .
A thousand years later , a mammoth died in southern Germany .
A few centuries after that , a griffon vulture also died in the same vicinity .
And we know almost nothing about how these animals met their deaths , but these different creatures dispersed across both time and space did share one remarkable fate .
After their deaths , a bone from each of their skeletons was crafted by human hands into a flute .
Think about that for a second .
Imagine you &apos;re a caveman , 40,000 years ago .
You &apos;ve mastered fire .
You &apos;ve built simple tools for hunting .
You &apos;ve learned how to craft garments from animal skins to keep yourself warm in the winter .
What would you choose to invent next ?
It seems preposterous that you would invent the flute , a tool that created useless vibrations in air molecules .
But that is exactly what our ancestors did .
Now this turns out to be surprisingly common in the history of innovation .
Sometimes people invent things because they want to stay alive or feed their children or conquer the village next door .
But just as often , new ideas come into the world simply because they &apos;re fun .
And here &apos;s the really strange thing : many of those playful but seemingly frivolous inventions ended up sparking momentous transformations in science , in politics and society .
Take what may be the most important invention of modern times : programmable computers .
Now , the standard story is that computers descend from military technology , since many of the early computers were designed specifically to crack wartime codes or calculate rocket trajectories .
But in fact , the origins of the modern computer are much more playful , even musical , than you might imagine .
The idea behind the flute , of just pushing air through tubes to make a sound , was eventually modified to create the first organ more than 2,000 years ago .
Someone came up with the brilliant idea of triggering sounds by pressing small levers with our fingers , inventing the first musical keyboard .
Now , keyboards evolved from organs to clavichords to harpsichords to the piano , until the middle of the 19th century , when a bunch of inventors finally hit on the idea of using a keyboard to trigger not sounds but letters .
In fact , the very first typewriter was originally called &quot; &quot; the writing harpsichord . &quot; &quot; Flutes and music led to even more powerful breakthroughs .
About a thousand years ago , at the height of the Islamic Renaissance , three brothers in Baghdad designed a device that was an automated organ .
They called it &quot; &quot; the instrument that plays itself . &quot; &quot; Now , the instrument was basically a giant music box .
The organ could be trained to play various songs by using instructions encoded by placing pins on a rotating cylinder .
And if you wanted the machine to play a different song , you just swapped a new cylinder in with a different code on it .
This instrument was the first of its kind .
It was programmable .
Now , conceptually , this was a massive leap forward .
The whole idea of hardware and software becomes thinkable for the first time with this invention .
And that incredibly powerful concept didn &apos;t come to us as an instrument of war or of conquest , or necessity at all .
It came from the strange delight of watching a machine play music .
In fact , the idea of programmable machines was exclusively kept alive by music for about 700 years .
In the 1700s , music-making machines became the playthings of the Parisian elite .
Showmen used the same coded cylinders to control the physical movements of what were called automata , an early kind of robot .
One of the most famous of those robots was , you guessed it , an automated flute player designed by a brilliant French inventor named Jacques de Vaucanson .
And as de Vaucanson was designing his robot musician , he had another idea .
If you could program a machine to make pleasing sounds , why not program it to weave delightful patterns of color out of cloth ?
Instead of using the pins of the cylinder to represent musical notes , they would represent threads with different colors .
If you wanted a new pattern for your fabric , you just programmed a new cylinder .
This was the first programmable loom .
Now , the cylinders were too expensive and time-consuming to make , but a half century later , another French inventor named Jacquard hit upon the brilliant idea of using paper-punched cards instead of metal cylinders .
Paper turned out to be much cheaper and more flexible as a way of programming the device .
That punch card system inspired Victorian inventor Charles Babbage to create his analytical engine , the first true programmable computer ever designed .
And punch cards were used by computer programmers as late as the 1970s .
So ask yourself this question : what really made the modern computer possible ?
Yes , the military involvement is an important part of the story , but inventing a computer also required other building blocks : music boxes , toy robot flute players , harpsichord keyboards , colorful patterns woven into fabric , and that &apos;s just a small part of the story .
There &apos;s a long list of world-changing ideas and technologies that came out of play : public museums , rubber , probability theory , the insurance business and many more .
Necessity isn &apos;t always the mother of invention .
The playful state of mind is fundamentally exploratory , seeking out new possibilities in the world around us .
And that seeking is why so many experiences that started with simple delight and amusement eventually led us to profound breakthroughs .
Now , I think this has implications for how we teach kids in school and how we encourage innovation in our workspaces , but thinking about play and delight this way also helps us detect what &apos;s coming next .
Think about it : if you were sitting there in 1750 trying to figure out the big changes coming to society in the 19th , the 20th centuries , automated machines , computers , artificial intelligence , a programmable flute entertaining the Parisian elite would have been as powerful a clue as anything else at the time .
It seemed like an amusement at best , not useful in any serious way , but it turned out to be the beginning of a tech revolution that would change the world .
You &apos;ll find the future wherever people are having the most fun .
