Growing up in Taiwan as the daughter of a calligrapher , one of my most treasured memories was my mother showing me the beauty , the shape and the form of Chinese characters .
Ever since then , I was fascinated by this incredible language .
But to an outsider , it seems to be as impenetrable as the Great Wall of China .
Over the past few years , I &apos;ve been wondering if I can break down this wall , so anyone who wants to understand and appreciate the beauty of this sophisticated language could do so .
I started thinking about how a new , fast method of learning Chinese might be useful .
Since the age of five , I started to learn how to draw every single stroke for each character in the correct sequence .
I learned new characters every day during the course of the next 15 years .
Since we only have five minutes , it &apos;s better that we have a fast and simpler way .
A Chinese scholar would understand 20,000 characters .
You only need 1,000 to understand the basic literacy .
The top 200 will allow you to comprehend 40 percent of basic literature — enough to read road signs , restaurant menus , to understand the basic idea of the web pages or the newspapers .
Today I &apos;m going to start with eight to show you how the method works .
You are ready ?
Open your mouth as wide as possible until it &apos;s square .
You get a mouth .
This is a person going for a walk .
Person .
If the shape of the fire is a person with two arms on both sides , as if she was yelling frantically , &quot; &quot; Help ! I &apos;m on fire ! &quot; &quot; — This symbol actually is originally from the shape of the flame , but I like to think that way . Whichever works for you .
This is a tree .
Tree .
This is a mountain .
The sun .
The moon .
The symbol of the door looks like a pair of saloon doors in the wild west .
I call these eight characters radicals .
They are the building blocks for you to create lots more characters .
A person .
If someone walks behind , that is &quot; &quot; to follow . &quot; &quot; As the old saying goes , two is company , three is a crowd .
If a person stretched their arms wide , this person is saying , &quot; &quot; It was this big . &quot; &quot; The person inside the mouth , the person is trapped .
He &apos;s a prisoner , just like Jonah inside the whale .
One tree is a tree . Two trees together , we have the woods .
Three trees together , we create the forest .
Put a plank underneath the tree , we have the foundation .
Put a mouth on the top of the tree , that &apos;s &quot; &quot; idiot . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Easy to remember , since a talking tree is pretty idiotic .
Remember fire ?
Two fires together , I get really hot .
Three fires together , that &apos;s a lot of flames .
Set the fire underneath the two trees , it &apos;s burning .
For us , the sun is the source of prosperity .
Two suns together , prosperous .
Three together , that &apos;s sparkles .
Put the sun and the moon shining together , it &apos;s brightness .
It also means tomorrow , after a day and a night .
The sun is coming up above the horizon . Sunrise .
A door . Put a plank inside the door , it &apos;s a door bolt .
Put a mouth inside the door , asking questions .
Knock knock . Is anyone home ?
This person is sneaking out of a door , escaping , evading .
On the left , we have a woman .
Two women together , they have an argument .
( Laughter ) Three women together , be careful , it &apos;s adultery .
So we have gone through almost 30 characters .
By using this method , the first eight radicals will allow you to build 32 .
The next group of eight characters will build an extra 32 .
So with very little effort , you will be able to learn a couple hundred characters , which is the same as a Chinese eight-year-old .
So after we know the characters , we start building phrases .
For example , the mountain and the fire together , we have fire mountain . It &apos;s a volcano .
We know Japan is the land of the rising sun .
This is a sun placed with the origin , because Japan lies to the east of China .
So a sun , origin together , we build Japan .
A person behind Japan , what do we get ?
A Japanese person .
The character on the left is two mountains stacked on top of each other .
In ancient China , that means in exile , because Chinese emperors , they put their political enemies in exile beyond mountains .
Nowadays , exile has turned into getting out .
A mouth which tells you where to get out is an exit .
This is a slide to remind me that I should stop talking and get off of the stage . Thank you .
( Applause )
There are a lot of ways the people around us can help improve our lives .
We don &apos;t bump into every neighbor , so a lot of wisdom never gets passed on , though we do share the same public spaces .
So over the past few years , I &apos;ve tried ways to share more with my neighbors in public space , using simple tools like stickers , stencils and chalk .
( Laughter ) How can we lend and borrow more things , without knocking on each other &apos;s doors at a bad time ?
How can we share more memories of our abandoned buildings , and gain a better understanding of our landscape ?
Now , I live in New Orleans , and I am in love with New Orleans .
I feel like every time someone sneezes , New Orleans has a parade .
In 2009 , I lost someone I loved very much .
And her death was sudden and unexpected .
I feel like it &apos;s easy to get caught up in the day-to-day , and forget what really matters to you .
So with help from old and new friends , I turned the side of this abandoned house into a giant chalkboard , and stenciled it with a fill-in-the-blank sentence : &quot; Before I die , I want to ... &quot;
I didn &apos;t know what to expect from this experiment , but by the next day , the wall was entirely filled out , and it kept growing .
&quot; Before I die , I want to be tried for piracy . &quot;
&quot; Before I die , I want to hold her one more time . &quot;
So this neglected space became a constructive one , and people &apos;s hopes and dreams made me laugh out loud , tear up , and they consoled me during my own tough times .
It &apos;s about knowing you &apos;re not alone ; it &apos;s about understanding our neighbors in new and enlightening ways ; it &apos;s about making space for reflection and contemplation , and remembering what really matters most to us as we grow and change .
I made this last year , and started receiving hundreds of messages from passionate people who wanted to make a wall with their community .
So , my civic center colleagues and I made a tool kit , and now walls have been made in countries around the world , including Kazakhstan , South Africa , Australia , Argentina , and beyond .
Together , we &apos;ve shown how powerful our public spaces can be if we &apos;re given the opportunity to have a voice , and share more with one another .
Our shared spaces can better reflect what matters to us , as individuals and as a community , and with more ways to share our hopes , fears and stories , the people around us can not only help us make better places , they can help us lead better lives .
( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause )
So this is James Risen .
You may know him as the Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter for The New York Times .
Long before anybody knew Edward Snowden &apos;s name , Risen wrote a book in which he famously exposed that the NSA was illegally wiretapping the phone calls of Americans .
But it &apos;s another chapter in that book that may have an even more lasting impact .
In it , he describes a catastrophic US intelligence operation in which the CIA quite literally handed over blueprints of a nuclear bomb to Iran .
If that sounds crazy , go read it .
It &apos;s an incredible story .
But you know who didn &apos;t like that chapter ?
The US government .
For nearly a decade afterwards , Risen was the subject of a US government investigation in which prosecutors demanded that he testify against one of his alleged sources .
And along the way , he became the face for the US government &apos;s recent pattern of prosecuting whistleblowers and spying on journalists .
You see , under the First Amendment , the press has the right to publish secret information in the public interest .
But it &apos;s impossible to exercise that right if the media can &apos;t also gather that news and protect the identities of the brave men and women who get it to them .
So when the government came knocking , Risen did what many brave reporters have done before him : he refused and said he &apos;d rather go to jail .
So from 2007 to 2015 , Risen lived under the specter of going to federal prison .
That is , until just days before the trial , when a curious thing happened .
Suddenly , after years of claiming it was vital to their case , the government dropped their demands to Risen altogether .
It turns out , in the age of electronic surveillance , there are very few places reporters and sources can hide .
And instead of trying and failing to have Risen testify , they could have his digital trail testify against him instead .
So completely in secret and without his consent , prosecutors got Risen &apos;s phone records .
They got his email records , his financial and banking information , his credit reports , even travel records with a list of flights he had taken .
And it was among this information that they used to convict Jeffrey Sterling , Risen &apos;s alleged source and CIA whistleblower .
Sadly , this is only one case of many .
President Obama ran on a promise to protect whistleblowers , and instead , his Justice Department has prosecuted more than all other administrations combined .
Now , you can see how this could be a problem , especially because the government considers so much of what it does secret .
Since 9 / 11 , virtually every important story about national security has been the result of a whistleblower coming to a journalist .
So we risk seeing the press unable to do their job that the First Amendment is supposed to protect because of the government &apos;s expanded ability to spy on everyone .
But just as technology has allowed the government to circumvent reporters &apos; rights , the press can also use technology to protect their sources even better than before .
And they can start from the moment they begin speaking with them , rather than on the witness stand after the fact .
Communications software now exists that wasn &apos;t available when Risen was writing his book , and is much more surveillance-resistant than regular emails or phone calls .
For example , one such tool is SecureDrop , an open-source whistleblower submission system that was originally created by the late Internet luminary Aaron Swartz , and is now developed at the non-profit where I work , Freedom of the Press Foundation .
Instead of sending an email , you go to a news organization &apos;s website , like this one here on The Washington Post .
From there , you can upload a document or send information much like you would on any other contact form .
So the government can no longer secretly demand the information , and much of the information they would demand wouldn &apos;t be available in the first place .
SecureDrop , though , is really only a small part of the puzzle for protecting press freedom in the 21st century .
Unfortunately , governments all over the world are constantly developing new spying techniques that put us all at risk .
And it &apos;s up to us going forward to make sure that it &apos;s not just the tech-savvy whistleblowers , like Edward Snowden , who have an avenue for exposing wrongdoing .
It &apos;s just as vital that we protect the next veteran &apos;s health care whistleblower alerting us to overcrowded hospitals , or the next environmental worker sounding the alarm about Flint &apos;s dirty water , or a Wall Street insider warning us of the next financial crisis .
After all , these tools weren &apos;t just built to help the brave men and women who expose crimes , but are meant to protect all of our rights under the Constitution .
Thank you .
( Applause )
This is our life with bees , and this is our life without bees .
Bees are the most important pollinators of our fruits and vegetables and flowers and crops like alfalfa hay that feed our farm animals .
More than one third of the world &apos;s crop production is dependent on bee pollination .
But the ironic thing is that bees are not out there pollinating our food intentionally .
They &apos;re out there because they need to eat .
Bees get all of the protein they need in their diet from pollen and all of the carbohydrates they need from nectar .
They &apos;re flower-feeders , and as they move from flower to flower , basically on a shopping trip at the local floral mart , they end up providing this valuable pollination service .
In parts of the world where there are no bees , or where they plant varieties that are not attractive to bees , people are paid to do the business of pollination by hand .
These people are moving pollen from flower to flower with a paintbrush .
Now this business of hand pollination is actually not that uncommon .
Tomato growers often pollinate their tomato flowers with a hand-held vibrator .
Now this one &apos;s the tomato tickler . ( Laughter ) Now this is because the pollen within a tomato flower is held very securely within the male part of the flower , the anther , and the only way to release this pollen is to vibrate it .
So bumblebees are one of the few kinds of bees in the world that are able to hold onto the flower and vibrate it , and they do this by shaking their flight muscles at a frequency similar to the musical note C.
So they vibrate the flower , they sonicate it , and that releases the pollen in this efficient swoosh , and the pollen gathers all over the fuzzy bee &apos;s body , and she takes it home as food .
Tomato growers now put bumblebee colonies inside the greenhouse to pollinate the tomatoes because they get much more efficient pollination when it &apos;s done naturally and they get better quality tomatoes .
So there &apos;s other , maybe more personal reasons , to care about bees .
There &apos;s over 20,000 species of bees in the world , and they &apos;re absolutely gorgeous .
These bees spend the majority of their life cycle hidden in the ground or within a hollow stem and very few of these beautiful species have evolved highly social behavior like honeybees .
Now honeybees tend to be the charismatic representative for the other 19,900-plus species because there &apos;s something about honeybees that draws people into their world .
Humans have been drawn to honeybees since early recorded history , mostly to harvest their honey , which is an amazing natural sweetener .
I got drawn into the honeybee world completely by a fluke .
I was 18 years old and bored , and I picked up a book in the library on bees and I spent the night reading it .
I had never thought about insects living in complex societies .
It was like the best of science fiction come true .
And even stranger , there were these people , these beekeepers , that loved their bees like they were family , and when I put down the book , I knew I had to see this for myself .
So I went to work for a commercial beekeeper , a family that owned 2,000 hives of bees in New Mexico .
And I was permanently hooked .
Honeybees can be considered a super-organism , where the colony is the organism and it &apos;s comprised of 40,000 to 50,000 individual bee organisms .
Now this society has no central authority .
Nobody &apos;s in charge .
So how they come to collective decisions , and how they allocate their tasks and divide their labor , how they communicate where the flowers are , all of their collective social behaviors are mindblowing .
My personal favorite , and one that I &apos;ve studied for many years , is their system of healthcare .
So bees have social healthcare .
So in my lab , we study how bees keep themselves healthy .
For example , we study hygiene , where some bees are able to locate and weed out sick individuals from the nest , from the colony , and it keeps the colony healthy .
And more recently , we &apos;ve been studying resins that bees collect from plants .
So bees fly to some plants and they scrape these very , very sticky resins off the leaves , and they take them back to the nest where they cement them into the nest architecture where we call it propolis .
We &apos;ve found that propolis is a natural disinfectant .
It &apos;s a natural antibiotic .
It kills off bacteria and molds and other germs within the colony , and so it bolsters the colony health and their social immunity .
Humans have known about the power of propolis since biblical times .
We &apos;ve been harvesting propolis out of bee colonies for human medicine , but we didn &apos;t know how good it was for the bees .
So honeybees have these remarkable natural defenses that have kept them healthy and thriving for over 50 million years .
So seven years ago , when honeybee colonies were reported to be dying en masse , first in the United States , it was clear that there was something really , really wrong .
In our collective conscience , in a really primal way , we know we can &apos;t afford to lose bees .
So what &apos;s going on ?
Bees are dying from multiple and interacting causes , and I &apos;ll go through each of these .
The bottom line is , bees dying reflects a flowerless landscape and a dysfunctional food system .
Now we have the best data on honeybees , so I &apos;ll use them as an example .
In the United States , bees in fact have been in decline since World War II .
We have half the number of managed hives in the United States now compared to 1945 .
We &apos;re down to about two million hives of bees , we think .
And the reason is , after World War II , we changed our farming practices .
We stopped planting cover crops .
We stopped planting clover and alfalfa , which are natural fertilizers that fix nitrogen in the soil , and instead we started using synthetic fertilizers .
Clover and alfalfa are highly nutritious food plants for bees .
And after World War II , we started using herbicides to kill off the weeds in our farms .
Many of these weeds are flowering plants that bees require for their survival .
And we started growing larger and larger crop monocultures .
Now we talk about food deserts , places in our cities , neighborhoods that have no grocery stores .
The very farms that used to sustain bees are now agricultural food deserts , dominated by one or two plant species like corn and soybeans .
Since World War II , we have been systematically eliminating many of the flowering plants that bees need for their survival .
And these monocultures extend even to crops that are good for bees , like almonds .
Fifty years ago , beekeepers would take a few colonies , hives of bees into the almond orchards , for pollination , and also because the pollen in an almond blossom is really high in protein . It &apos;s really good for bees .
Now , the scale of almond monoculture demands that most of our nation &apos;s bees , over 1.5 million hives of bees , be transported across the nation to pollinate this one crop .
And they &apos;re trucked in in semi-loads , and they must be trucked out , because after bloom , the almond orchards are a vast and flowerless landscape .
Bees have been dying over the last 50 years , and we &apos;re planting more crops that need them .
There has been a 300 percent increase in crop production that requires bee pollination .
And then there &apos;s pesticides .
After World War II , we started using pesticides on a large scale , and this became necessary because of the monocultures that put out a feast for crop pests .
Recently , researchers from Penn State University have started looking at the pesticide residue in the loads of pollen that bees carry home as food , and they &apos;ve found that every batch of pollen that a honeybee collects has at least six detectable pesticides in it , and this includes every class of insecticides , herbicides , fungicides , and even inert and unlabeled ingredients that are part of the pesticide formulation that can be more toxic than the active ingredient .
This small bee is holding up a large mirror .
How much is it going to take to contaminate humans ?
One of these class of insecticides , the neonicontinoids , is making headlines around the world right now .
You &apos;ve probably heard about it .
This is a new class of insecticides .
It moves through the plant so that a crop pest , a leaf-eating insect , would take a bite of the plant and get a lethal dose and die .
If one of these neonics , we call them , is applied in a high concentration , such as in this ground application , enough of the compound moves through the plant and gets into the pollen and the nectar , where a bee can consume , in this case , a high dose of this neurotoxin that makes the bee twitch and die .
In most agricultural settings , on most of our farms , it &apos;s only the seed that &apos;s coated with the insecticide , and so a smaller concentration moves through the plant and gets into the pollen and nectar , and if a bee consumes this lower dose , either nothing happens or the bee becomes intoxicated and disoriented and she may not find her way home .
And on top of everything else , bees have their own set of diseases and parasites .
Public enemy number one for bees is this thing .
It &apos;s called varroa destructor .
It &apos;s aptly named .
It &apos;s this big , blood-sucking parasite that compromises the bee &apos;s immune system and circulates viruses .
Let me put this all together for you .
I don &apos;t know what it feels like to a bee to have a big , bloodsucking parasite running around on it , and I don &apos;t know what it feels like to a bee to have a virus , but I do know what it feels like when I have a virus , the flu , and I know how difficult it is for me to get to the grocery store to get good nutrition .
But what if I lived in a food desert ?
And what if I had to travel a long distance to get to the grocery store , and I finally got my weak body out there and I consumed , in my food , enough of a pesticide , a neurotoxin , that I couldn &apos;t find my way home ?
And this is what we mean by multiple and interacting causes of death .
And it &apos;s not just our honeybees .
All of our beautiful wild species of bees are at risk , including those tomato-pollinating bumblebees .
These bees are providing backup for our honeybees .
They &apos;re providing the pollination insurance alongside our honeybees .
We need all of our bees .
So what are we going to do ?
What are we going to do about this big bee bummer that we &apos;ve created ?
It turns out , it &apos;s hopeful . It &apos;s hopeful .
Every one of you out there can help bees in two very direct and easy ways .
Plant bee-friendly flowers , and don &apos;t contaminate these flowers , this bee food , with pesticides .
So go online and search for flowers that are native to your area and plant them .
Plant them in a pot on your doorstep .
Plant them in your front yard , in your lawns , in your boulevards .
Campaign to have them planted in public gardens , community spaces , meadows .
Set aside farmland .
We need a beautiful diversity of flowers that blooms over the entire growing season , from spring to fall .
We need roadsides seeded in flowers for our bees , but also for migrating butterflies and birds and other wildlife .
And we need to think carefully about putting back in cover crops to nourish our soil and nourish our bees .
And we need to diversify our farms .
We need to plant flowering crop borders and hedge rows to disrupt the agricultural food desert and begin to correct the dysfunctional food system that we &apos;ve created .
So maybe it seems like a really small countermeasure to a big , huge problem — just go plant flowers — but when bees have access to good nutrition , we have access to good nutrition through their pollination services .
And when bees have access to good nutrition , they &apos;re better able to engage their own natural defenses , their healthcare , that they have relied on for millions of years .
So the beauty of helping bees this way , for me , is that every one of us needs to behave a little bit more like a bee society , an insect society , where each of our individual actions can contribute to a grand solution , an emergent property , that &apos;s much greater than the mere sum of our individual actions .
So let the small act of planting flowers and keeping them free of pesticides be the driver of large-scale change .
On behalf of the bees , thank you .
( Applause ) Chris Anderson : Thank you . Just a quick question .
The latest numbers on the die-off of bees , is there any sign of things bottoming out ?
What &apos;s your hope / depression level on this ?
Maria Spivak : Yeah .
At least in the United States , an average of 30 percent of all bee hives are lost every winter .
About 20 years ago , we were at a 15-percent loss .
So it &apos;s getting precarious .
CA : That &apos;s not 30 percent a year , that &apos;s — MS : Yes , thirty percent a year .
CA : Thirty percent a year . MS : But then beekeepers are able to divide their colonies and so they can maintain the same number , they can recuperate some of their loss .
We &apos;re kind of at a tipping point .
We can &apos;t really afford to lose that many more .
We need to be really appreciative of all the beekeepers out there . Plant flowers .
CA : Thank you .
( Applause )
When I was 27 years old , I left a very demanding job in management consulting for a job that was even more demanding : teaching .
I went to teach seventh graders math in the New York City public schools .
And like any teacher , I made quizzes and tests .
I gave out homework assignments .
When the work came back , I calculated grades .
What struck me was that IQ was not the only difference between my best and my worst students .
Some of my strongest performers did not have stratospheric IQ scores .
Some of my smartest kids weren &apos;t doing so well .
And that got me thinking .
The kinds of things you need to learn in seventh grade math , sure , they &apos;re hard : ratios , decimals , the area of a parallelogram .
But these concepts are not impossible , and I was firmly convinced that every one of my students could learn the material if they worked hard and long enough .
After several more years of teaching , I came to the conclusion that what we need in education is a much better understanding of students and learning from a motivational perspective , from a psychological perspective .
In education , the one thing we know how to measure best is IQ .
But what if doing well in school and in life depends on much more than your ability to learn quickly and easily ?
So I left the classroom , and I went to graduate school to become a psychologist .
I started studying kids and adults in all kinds of super challenging settings , and in every study my question was , who is successful here and why ?
My research team and I went to West Point Military Academy .
We studied rookie teachers working in really tough neighborhoods , asking which teachers are still going to be here in teaching by the end of the school year , and of those , who will be the most effective at improving learning outcomes for their students ?
In all those very different contexts , one characteristic emerged as a significant predictor of success .
And it wasn &apos;t social intelligence .
It wasn &apos;t good looks , physical health , and it wasn &apos;t IQ .
It was grit .
Grit is passion and perseverance for very long-term goals .
Grit is having stamina .
Grit is sticking with your future , day in , day out , not just for the week , not just for the month , but for years , and working really hard to make that future a reality .
Grit is living life like it &apos;s a marathon , not a sprint .
A few years ago , I started studying grit in the Chicago public schools .
I asked thousands of high school juniors to take grit questionnaires , and then waited around more than a year to see who would graduate .
Turns out that grittier kids were significantly more likely to graduate , even when I matched them on every characteristic I could measure , things like family income , standardized achievement test scores , even how safe kids felt when they were at school .
It &apos;s also in school , especially for kids at risk for dropping out .
To me , the most shocking thing about grit is how little we know , how little science knows , about building it .
Every day , parents and teachers ask me , &quot; &quot; How do I build grit in kids ?
How do I keep them motivated for the long run ? &quot; &quot; The honest answer is , I don &apos;t know .
( Laughter ) What I do know is that talent doesn &apos;t make you gritty .
In fact , in our data , grit is usually unrelated or even inversely related to measures of talent .
So far , the best idea I &apos;ve heard about building grit in kids is something called &quot; &quot; growth mindset . &quot; &quot; This is an idea developed at Stanford University by Carol Dweck , and it is the belief that the ability to learn is not fixed , that it can change with your effort .
Dr. Dweck has shown that when kids read and learn about the brain and how it changes and grows in response to challenge , they &apos;re much more likely to persevere when they fail , because they don &apos;t believe that failure is a permanent condition .
So growth mindset is a great idea for building grit .
And that &apos;s where I &apos;m going to end my remarks , because that &apos;s where we are .
We need to take our best ideas , our strongest intuitions , and we need to test them .
We need to measure whether we &apos;ve been successful , and we have to be willing to fail , to be wrong , to start over again with lessons learned .
In other words , we need to be gritty about getting our kids grittier .
Chris Anderson : Elon , what kind of crazy dream would persuade you to think of trying to take on the auto industry and build an all-electric car ?
Elon Musk : Well , it goes back to when I was in university .
I thought about , what are the problems that are most likely to affect the future of the world or the future of humanity ?
I think it &apos;s extremely important that we have sustainable transport and sustainable energy production .
That sort of overall sustainable energy problem is the biggest problem that we have to solve this century , independent of environmental concerns .
In fact , even if producing CO2 was good for the environment , given that we &apos;re going to run out of hydrocarbons , we need to find some sustainable means of operating .
CA : Most of American electricity comes from burning fossil fuels .
How can an electric car that plugs into that electricity help ?
EM : Right . There &apos;s two elements to that answer .
One is that , even if you take the same source fuel and produce power at the power plant and use it to charge electric cars , you &apos;re still better off .
So if you take , say , natural gas , which is the most prevalent hydrocarbon source fuel , if you burn that in a modern General Electric natural gas turbine , you &apos;ll get about 60 percent efficiency .
If you put that same fuel in an internal combustion engine car , you get about 20 percent efficiency .
And the reason is , in the stationary power plant , you can afford to have something that weighs a lot more , is voluminous , and you can take the waste heat and run a steam turbine and generate a secondary power source .
So in effect , even after you &apos;ve taken transmission loss into account and everything , even using the same source fuel , you &apos;re at least twice as better off charging an electric car , then burning it at the power plant .
CA : That scale delivers efficiency .
EM : Yes , it does .
And then the other point is , we have to have sustainable means of power generation anyway , electricity generation .
So given that we have to solve sustainable electricity generation , then it makes sense for us to have electric cars as the mode of transport .
CA : So we &apos;ve got some video here of the Tesla being assembled , which , if we could play that first video — So what is innovative about this process in this vehicle ?
EM : Sure . So , in order to accelerate the advent of electric transport , and I should say that I think , actually , all modes of transport will become fully electric with the ironic exception of rockets .
There &apos;s just no way around Newton &apos;s third law .
The question is how do you accelerate the advent of electric transport ?
And in order to do that for cars , you have to come up with a really energy efficient car , so that means making it incredibly light , and so what you &apos;re seeing here is the only all-aluminum body and chassis car made in North America .
In fact , we applied a lot of rocket design techniques to make the car light despite having a very large battery pack .
And then it also has the lowest drag coefficient of any car of its size .
So as a result , the energy usage is very low , and it has the most advanced battery pack , and that &apos;s what gives it the range that &apos;s competitive , so you can actually have on the order of a 250-mile range .
CA : I mean , those battery packs are incredibly heavy , but you think the math can still work out intelligently — by combining light body , heavy battery , you can still gain spectacular efficiency .
EM : Exactly . The rest of the car has to be very light to offset the mass of the pack , and then you have to have a low drag coefficient so that you have good highway range .
And in fact , customers of the Model S are sort of competing with each other to try to get the highest possible range .
I think somebody recently got 420 miles out of a single charge .
CA : Bruno Bowden , who &apos;s here , did that , broke the world record.EM : Congratulations .
CA : That was the good news . The bad news was that to do it , he had to drive at 18 miles an hour constant speed and got pulled over by the cops . ( Laughter ) EM : I mean , you can certainly drive — if you drive it 65 miles an hour , under normal conditions , 250 miles is a reasonable number .
CA : Let &apos;s show that second video showing the Tesla in action on ice .
Not at all a dig at The New York Times , this , by the way .
What is the most surprising thing about the experience of driving the car ?
EM : In creating an electric car , the responsiveness of the car is really incredible .
So we wanted really to have people feel as though they &apos;ve almost got to mind meld with the car , so you just feel like you and the car are kind of one , and as you corner and accelerate , it just happens , like the car has ESP .
You can do that with an electric car because of its responsiveness .
You can &apos;t do that with a gasoline car .
I think that &apos;s really a profound difference , and people only experience that when they have a test drive .
CA : I mean , this is a beautiful but expensive car .
Is there a road map where this becomes a mass-market vehicle ?
EM : Yeah . The goal of Tesla has always been to have a sort of three-step process , where version one was an expensive car at low volume , version two is medium priced and medium volume , and then version three would be low price , high volume .
So we &apos;re at step two at this point .
So we had a $ 100,000 sports car , which was the Roadster .
Then we &apos;ve got the Model S , which starts at around 50,000 dollars .
And our third generation car , which should hopefully be out in about three or four years will be a $ 30,000 car .
But whenever you &apos;ve got really new technology , it generally takes about three major versions in order to make it a compelling mass-market product .
And so I think we &apos;re making progress in that direction , and I feel confident that we &apos;ll get there .
CA : I mean , right now , if you &apos;ve got a short commute , you can drive , you can get back , you can charge it at home .
There isn &apos;t a huge nationwide network of charging stations now that are fast .
Do you see that coming , really , truly , or just on a few key routes ?
EM : There actually are far more charging stations than people realize , and at Tesla we developed something called a Supercharging technology , and we &apos;re offering that if you buy a Model S for free , forever .
And so this is something that maybe a lot of people don &apos;t realize .
We actually have California and Nevada covered , and we &apos;ve got the Eastern seaboard from Boston to D.C. covered .
By the end of this year , you &apos;ll be able to drive from L.A. to New York just using the Supercharger network , which charges at five times the rate of anything else .
And the key thing is to have a ratio of drive to stop , to stop time , of about six or seven .
So if you drive for three hours , you want to stop for 20 or 30 minutes , because that &apos;s normally what people will stop for .
So if you start a trip at 9 a.m. , by noon you want to stop to have a bite to eat , hit the restroom , coffee , and keep going .
CA : So your proposition to consumers is , for the full charge , it could take an hour .
So it &apos;s common — don &apos;t expect to be out of here in 10 minutes .
Wait for an hour , but the good news is , you &apos;re helping save the planet , and by the way , the electricity is free . You don &apos;t pay anything .
EM : Actually , what we &apos;re expecting is for people to stop for about 20 to 30 minutes , not for an hour .
It &apos;s actually better to drive for about maybe 160 , 170 miles and then stop for half an hour and then keep going .
That &apos;s the natural cadence of a trip .
CA : All right . So this is only one string to your energy bow .
You &apos;ve been working on this solar company SolarCity .
What &apos;s unusual about that ?
EM : Well , as I mentioned earlier , we have to have sustainable electricity production as well as consumption , so I &apos;m quite confident that the primary means of power generation will be solar .
I mean , it &apos;s really indirect fusion , is what it is .
We &apos;ve got this giant fusion generator in the sky called the sun , and we just need to tap a little bit of that energy for purposes of human civilization .
What most people know but don &apos;t realize they know is that the world is almost entirely solar-powered already .
If the sun wasn &apos;t there , we &apos;d be a frozen ice ball at three degrees Kelvin , and the sun powers the entire system of precipitation .
The whole ecosystem is solar-powered .
CA : But in a gallon of gasoline , you have , effectively , thousands of years of sun power compressed into a small space , so it &apos;s hard to make the numbers work right now on solar , and to remotely compete with , for example , natural gas , fracked natural gas . How are you going to build a business here ?
EM : Well actually , I &apos;m confident that solar will beat everything , hands down , including natural gas .
( Applause ) CA : How ?
EM : It must , actually . If it doesn &apos;t , we &apos;re in deep trouble .
CA : But you &apos;re not selling solar panels to consumers .
What are you doing ?
EM : No , we actually are . You can buy a solar system or you can lease a solar system .
Most people choose to lease .
And the thing about solar power is that it doesn &apos;t have any feed stock or operational costs , so once it &apos;s installed , it &apos;s just there .
It works for decades . It &apos;ll work for probably a century .
So therefore , the key thing to do is to get the cost of that initial installation low , and then get the cost of the financing low , because that interest — those are the two factors that drive the cost of solar .
And we &apos;ve made huge progress in that direction , and that &apos;s why I &apos;m confident we &apos;ll actually beat natural gas .
CA : So your current proposition to consumers is , don &apos;t pay so much up front .
EM : Zero.CA : Pay zero up front .
We will install panels on your roof .
You will then pay , how long is a typical lease ?
EM : Typical leases are 20 years , but the value proposition is , as you &apos;re sort of alluding to , quite straightforward .
It &apos;s no money down , and your utility bill decreases .
Pretty good deal .
CA : So that seems like a win for the consumer .
No risk , you &apos;ll pay less than you &apos;re paying now .
For you , the dream here then is that — I mean , who owns the electricity from those panels for the longer term ?
I mean , how do you , the company , benefit ?
EM : Well , essentially , SolarCity raises a chunk of capital from say , a company or a bank .
Google is one of our big partners here .
And they have an expected return on that capital .
With that capital , SolarCity purchases and installs the panel on the roof and then charges the homeowner or business owner a monthly lease payment , which is less than the utility bill .
CA : But you yourself get a long-term commercial benefit from that power .
You &apos;re kind of building a new type of distributed utility .
EM : Exactly . What it amounts to is a giant distributed utility .
I think it &apos;s a good thing , because utilities have been this monopoly , and people haven &apos;t had any choice .
So effectively it &apos;s the first time there &apos;s been competition for this monopoly , because the utilities have been the only ones that owned those power distribution lines , but now it &apos;s on your roof .
So I think it &apos;s actually very empowering for homeowners and businesses .
CA : And you really picture a future where a majority of power in America , within a decade or two , or within your lifetime , it goes solar ?
EM : I &apos;m extremely confident that solar will be at least a plurality of power , and most likely a majority , and I predict it will be a plurality in less than 20 years .
I made that bet with someone — CA : Definition of plurality is ?
EM : More from solar than any other source .
CA : Ah . Who did you make the bet with ?
EM : With a friend who will remain nameless .
CA : Just between us . ( Laughter ) EM : I made that bet , I think , two or three years ago , so in roughly 18 years , I think we &apos;ll see more power from solar than any other source .
CA : All right , so let &apos;s go back to another bet that you made with yourself , I guess , a kind of crazy bet .
You &apos;d made some money from the sale of PayPal .
You decided to build a space company .
Why on Earth would someone do that ?
( Laughter ) EM : I got that question a lot , that &apos;s true .
People would say , &quot; &quot; Did you hear the joke about the guy who made a small fortune in the space industry ? &quot; &quot; Obviously , &quot; &quot; He started with a large one , &quot; &quot; is the punchline .
And so I tell people , well , I was trying to figure out the fastest way to turn a large fortune into a small one .
And they &apos;d look at me , like , &quot; &quot; Is he serious ? &quot; &quot; CA : And strangely , you were . So what happened ?
EM : It was a close call . Things almost didn &apos;t work out .
We came very close to failure , but we managed to get through that point in 2008 .
The goal of SpaceX is to try to advance rocket technology , and in particular to try to crack a problem that I think is vital for humanity to become a space-faring civilization , which is to have a rapidly and fully reusable rocket .
CA : Would humanity become a space-faring civilization ?
So that was a dream of yours , in a way , from a young age ?
You &apos;ve dreamed of Mars and beyond ?
EM : I did build rockets when I was a kid , but I didn &apos;t think I &apos;d be involved in this .
It was really more from the standpoint of what are the things that need to happen in order for the future to be an exciting and inspiring one ?
And I really think there &apos;s a fundamental difference , if you sort of look into the future , between a humanity that is a space-faring civilization , that &apos;s out there exploring the stars , on multiple planets , and I think that &apos;s really exciting , compared with one where we are forever confined to Earth until some eventual extinction event .
CA : So you &apos;ve somehow slashed the cost of building a rocket by 75 percent , depending on how you calculate it .
How on Earth have you done that ?
NASA has been doing this for years . How have you done this ?
EM : Well , we &apos;ve made significant advances in the technology of the airframe , the engines , the electronics and the launch operation .
There &apos;s a long list of innovations that we &apos;ve come up with there that are a little difficult to communicate in this talk , but — CA : Not least because you could still get copied , right ?
You haven &apos;t patented this stuff . It &apos;s really interesting to me .
EM : No , we don &apos;t patent.CA : You didn &apos;t patent because you think it &apos;s more dangerous to patent than not to patent .
EM : Since our primary competitors are national governments , the enforceability of patents is questionable . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) CA : That &apos;s really , really interesting .
But the big innovation is still ahead , and you &apos;re working on it now . Tell us about this .
EM : Right , so the big innovation — CA : In fact , let &apos;s roll that video and you can talk us through it , what &apos;s happening here .
EM : Absolutely . So the thing about rockets is that they &apos;re all expendable .
All rockets that fly today are fully expendable .
The space shuttle was an attempt at a reusable rocket , but even the main tank of the space shuttle was thrown away every time , and the parts that were reusable took a 10,000-person group nine months to refurbish for flight .
So the space shuttle ended up costing a billion dollars per flight .
Obviously that doesn &apos;t work very well for — CA : What just happened there ? We just saw something land ?
EM : That &apos;s right . So it &apos;s important that the rocket stages be able to come back , to be able to return to the launch site and be ready to launch again within a matter of hours .
CA : Wow . Reusable rockets.EM : Yes . ( Applause ) And so what a lot of people don &apos;t realize is , the cost of the fuel , of the propellant , is very small .
It &apos;s much like on a jet .
So the cost of the propellant is about .3 percent of the cost of the rocket .
So it &apos;s possible to achieve , let &apos;s say , roughly 100-fold improvement in the cost of spaceflight if you can effectively reuse the rocket .
That &apos;s why it &apos;s so important .
Every mode of transport that we use , whether it &apos;s planes , trains , automobiles , bikes , horses , is reusable , but not rockets .
So we must solve this problem in order to become a space-faring civilization .
CA : You asked me the question earlier of how popular traveling on cruises would be if you had to burn your ships afterward.EM : Certain cruises are apparently highly problematic .
CA : Definitely more expensive .
So that &apos;s potentially absolutely disruptive technology , and , I guess , paves the way for your dream to actually take , at some point , to take humanity to Mars at scale .
You &apos;d like to see a colony on Mars .
EM : Yeah , exactly . SpaceX , or some combination of companies and governments , needs to make progress in the direction of making life multi-planetary , of establishing a base on another planet , on Mars — being the only realistic option — and then building that base up until we &apos;re a true multi-planet species .
CA : So progress on this &quot; &quot; let &apos;s make it reusable , &quot; &quot; how is that going ? That was just a simulation video we saw .
How &apos;s it going ?
EM : We &apos;re actually , we &apos;ve been making some good progress recently with something we call the Grasshopper Test Project , where we &apos;re testing the vertical landing portion of the flight , the sort of terminal portion which is quite tricky .
And we &apos;ve had some good tests .
CA : Can we see that ? EM : Yeah .
So that &apos;s just to give a sense of scale .
We dressed a cowboy as Johnny Cash and bolted the mannequin to the rocket . ( Laughter ) CA : All right , let &apos;s see that video then , because this is actually amazing when you think about it .
You &apos;ve never seen this before . A rocket blasting off and then — EM : Yeah , so that rocket is about the size of a 12-story building .
( Rocket launch ) So now it &apos;s hovering at about 40 meters , and it &apos;s constantly adjusting the angle , the pitch and yaw of the main engine , and maintaining roll with cold gas thrusters .
CA : How cool is that ? ( Applause ) Elon , how have you done this ?
These projects are so — Paypal , SolarCity , Tesla , SpaceX , they &apos;re so spectacularly different , they &apos;re such ambitious projects at scale .
How on Earth has one person been able to innovate in this way ?
What is it about you ?
EM : I don &apos;t know , actually .
I don &apos;t have a good answer for you .
I work a lot . I mean , a lot .
CA : Well , I have a theory.EM : Okay . All right .
CA : My theory is that you have an ability to think at a system level of design that pulls together design , technology and business , so if TED was TBD , design , technology and business , into one package , synthesize it in a way that very few people can and — and this is the critical thing — feel so damn confident in that clicked-together package that you take crazy risks .
You bet your fortune on it , and you seem to have done that multiple times .
I mean , almost no one can do that .
Is that — could we have some of that secret sauce ?
Can we put it into our education system ? Can someone learn from you ?
It is truly amazing what you &apos;ve done .
EM : Well , thanks . Thank you .
Well , I do think there &apos;s a good framework for thinking .
It is physics . You know , the sort of first principles reasoning .
Generally I think there are — what I mean by that is , boil things down to their fundamental truths and reason up from there , as opposed to reasoning by analogy .
Through most of our life , we get through life by reasoning by analogy , which essentially means copying what other people do with slight variations .
And you have to do that .
Otherwise , mentally , you wouldn &apos;t be able to get through the day .
But when you want to do something new , you have to apply the physics approach .
Physics is really figuring out how to discover new things that are counterintuitive , like quantum mechanics .
It &apos;s really counterintuitive .
So I think that &apos;s an important thing to do , and then also to really pay attention to negative feedback , and solicit it , particularly from friends .
This may sound like simple advice , but hardly anyone does that , and it &apos;s incredibly helpful .
CA : Boys and girls watching , study physics .
Learn from this man .
Elon Musk , I wish we had all day , but thank you so much for coming to TED .
EM : Thank you . CA : That was awesome . That was really , really cool .
Look at that . ( Applause ) Just take a bow . That was fantastic .
Thank you so much .
Dre Urhahn : This theater is built on Copacabana , which is the most famous beach in the world , but 25 kilometers away from here in the North Zone of Rio lies a community called Vila Cruzeiro , and roughly 60,000 people live there .
Now , the people here in Rio mostly know Vila Cruzeiro from the news , and unfortunately , news from Vila Cruzeiro often is not good news .
But Vila Cruzeiro is also the place where our story begins .
Jeroen Koolhaas : Ten years ago , we first came to Rio to shoot a documentary about life in the favelas .
They emerged over the years when immigrants from the countryside came to the cities looking for work , like cities within the cities , known for problems like crime , poverty , and the violent drug war between police and the drug gangs .
So what struck us was that these were communities that the people who lived there had built with their own hands , without a master plan and like a giant work in progress .
Where we &apos;re from , in Holland , everything is planned .
We even have rules for how to follow the rules .
( Laughter ) DU : So the last day of filming , we ended up in Vila Cruzeiro , and we were sitting down and we had a drink , and we were overlooking this hill with all these houses , and most of these houses looked unfinished , and they had walls of bare brick , but we saw some of these houses which were plastered and painted , and suddenly we had this idea : what would it look like if all these houses would be plastered and painted ?
And then we imagined one big design , one big work of art .
Who would expect something like that in a place like this ?
So we thought , would that even be possible ?
So first we started to count the houses , but we soon lost count .
But somehow the idea stuck .
JK : We had a friend .
He ran an NGO in Vila Cruzeiro .
His name was Nanko , and he also liked the idea .
He said , &quot; &quot; You know , everybody here would pretty much love to have their houses plastered and painted .
It &apos;s when a house is finished . &quot; &quot; So he introduced us to the right people , and Vitor and Maurinho became our crew .
We picked three houses in the center of the community and we start here . We made a few designs , and everybody liked this design of a boy flying a kite the best .
So we started painting , and the first thing we did was to paint everything blue , and we thought that looked already pretty good .
But they hated it . The people who lived there really hated it .
You painted our house in exactly the same color as the police station . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) In a favela , that is not a good thing .
Also the same color as the prison cell .
So we quickly went ahead and we painted the boy , and then we thought we were finished , we were really happy , but still , it wasn &apos;t good because the little kids started coming up to us , and they said , &quot; &quot; You know , there &apos;s a boy flying the kite , but where is his kite ? &quot; &quot; We said , &quot; &quot; Uh , it &apos;s art .
You know , you have to imagine the kite . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) And they said , &quot; &quot; No , no , no , we want to see the kite . &quot; &quot; So we quickly installed a kite way up high on the hill , so that you could see the boy flying the kite and you could actually see a kite .
So the local news started writing about it , which was great , and then even The Guardian wrote about it : &quot; Notorious slum becomes open-air gallery . &quot;
JK : So , encouraged by this success , we went back to Rio for a second project , and we stumbled upon this street .
It was covered in concrete to prevent mudslides , and somehow we saw a sort of river in it , and we imagined this river to be a river in Japanese style with koi carp swimming upstream .
So we decided to paint that river , and we invited Rob Admiraal , who is a tattoo artist , and he specialized in the Japanese style .
So little did we know that we would spend almost an entire year painting that river , together with Geovani and Robinho and Vitor , who lived nearby .
And we even moved into the neighborhood when one of the guys that lived on the street , Elias , told us that we could come and live in his house , together with his family , which was fantastic .
Unfortunately , during that time , another war broke out between the police and the drug gangs .
( Video ) ( Gunfire ) We learned that during those times , people in communities really stick together during these times of hardship , but we also learned a very important element , the importance of barbecues . ( Laughter ) Because , when you throw a barbecue , it turns you from a guest into a host , so we decided to throw one almost every other week , and we got to know everybody in the neighborhood .
JK : We still had this idea of the hill , though .
DU : Yeah , yeah , we were talking about the scale of this , because this painting was incredibly big , and it was insanely detailed , and this process almost drove us completely insane ourselves .
But we figured that maybe , during this process , all the time that we had spent in the neighborhood was maybe actually even more important than the painting itself .
JK : So after all that time , this hill , this idea was still there , and we started to make sketches , models , and we figured something out .
We figured that our ideas , our designs had to be a little bit more simple than that last project so that we could paint with more people and cover more houses at the same time .
And we had an opportunity to try that out in a community in the central part of Rio , which is called Santa Marta , and we made a design for this place which looked like this , and then we got people to go along with it because turns out that if your idea is ridiculously big , it &apos;s easier to get people to go along with this . ( Laughter ) And the people of Santa Marta got together and in a little over a month they turned that square into this .
( Applause ) And this image somehow went all over the world .
DU : So then we received an unexpected phone call from the Philadelphia Mural Arts Program , and they had this question if this idea , our approach , if this would actually work in North Philly , which is one of the poorest neighborhoods in the United States .
So we immediately said yes .
We had no idea how , but it seemed like a very interesting challenge , so we did exactly the same as we did in Rio , and we moved into the neighborhood and started barbecuing .
( Laughter ) So the project took almost two years to complete , and we made individual designs for every single house on the avenue that we painted , and we made these designs together with the local store owners , the building owners , and a team of about a dozen young men and women .
They were hired , and then they were trained as painters , and together they transformed their own neighborhood , the whole street , into a giant patchwork of color .
( Applause ) And at the end , the city of Philadelphia thanked every single one of them and gave them a merit for their accomplishment .
JK : So now we had painted a whole street .
How about we do this whole hill now ?
We started looking for funding , but instead , we just ran into questions , like , how many houses are you going to paint ?
How many square meters is that ?
How much paint are you going to use , and how many people are you going to employ ?
And we did try for years to write plans for the funding and answer all those questions , but then we thought , in order to answer all those questions , you have to know exactly what you &apos;re going to do before you actually get there and start .
And maybe it &apos;s a mistake to think like that .
It would lose some of the magic that we had learned about that if you go somewhere and you spend time there , you can let the project grow organically and have a life of its own .
DU : So what we did is we decided to take this plan and strip it away from all the numbers and all the ideas and presumptions and just go back to the base idea , which was to transform this hill into a giant work of art .
And instead of looking for funding , we started a crowdfunding campaign , and in a little over a month , more than 1,500 people put together and donated over 100,000 dollars .
So for us , this was an amazing moment , because now — ( Applause ) — because now we finally had the freedom to use all the lessons that we had learned and create a project that was built the same way that the favela was built , from the ground on up , bottom up , with no master plan .
JK : So we went back , and we employed Angelo , and he &apos;s a local artist from Vila Cruzeiro , very talented guy , and he knows almost everybody there , and then we employed Elias , our former landlord who invited us into his house , and he &apos;s a master of construction .
Together with them , we decided where to start .
We picked this spot in Vila Cruzeiro , and houses are being plastered as we speak .
And the good thing about them is that they are deciding which houses go next .
They &apos;re even printing t-shirts , they &apos;re putting up banners explaining everything to everybody , and talking to the press .
This article about Angelo appeared .
DU : So while this is happening , we are bringing this idea all over the world .
So , like the project we did in Philadelphia , we are also invited to do workshops , for instance in Curaçao , and right now we &apos;re planning a huge project in Haiti .
JK : So the favela was not only the place where this idea started : it was also the place that made it possible to work without a master plan , because these communities are informal — this was the inspiration — and in a communal effort , together with the people , you can almost work like in an orchestra , where you can have a hundred instruments playing together to create a symphony .
DU : So we want to thank everybody who wanted to become part of this dream and supported us along the way , and we are looking at continuing .
JK : Yeah . And so one day pretty soon , when the colors start going up on these walls , we hope more people will join us , and join this big dream , and maybe one day , the whole of Vila Cruzeiro will be painted .
DU : Thank you .
( Applause )
Good morning . How are you ?
I have an interest in education .
But if you are , and you say to somebody , you know , they say , &quot; &quot; What do you do ? &quot; &quot; and you say you work in education , you can see the blood run from their face .
And yet we &apos;re meant to be educating them for it .
And she &apos;s exceptional , but I think she &apos;s not , so to speak , exceptional in the whole of childhood .
So I want to talk about education and I want to talk about creativity .
We had the place crammed full of agents in T-shirts : &quot; &quot; James Robinson IS Joseph ! &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) He didn &apos;t have to speak , but you know the bit where the three kings come in ?
What we do know is , if you &apos;re not prepared to be wrong , you &apos;ll never come up with anything original — if you &apos;re not prepared to be wrong .
( Laughter ) Actually , we lived in a place called Snitterfield , just outside Stratford , which is where Shakespeare &apos;s father was born .
Shakespeare being seven ?
I &apos;ve got two kids ; he &apos;s 21 now , my daughter &apos;s 16 .
He didn &apos;t want to come to Los Angeles .
( Laughter ) Truthfully , what happens is , as children grow up , we start to educate them progressively from the waist up .
If you were to visit education , as an alien , and say &quot; &quot; What &apos;s it for , public education ? &quot; &quot; I think you &apos;d have to conclude , if you look at the output , who really succeeds by this , who does everything that they should , who gets all the brownie points , who are the winners — I think you &apos;d have to conclude the whole purpose of public education throughout the world is to produce university professors .
They &apos;re just a form of life , another form of life .
( Laughter ) Waiting until it ends so they can go home and write a paper about it . ( Laughter )
And I didn &apos;t want one , frankly . ( Laughter ) But now kids with degrees are often heading home to carry on playing video games , because you need an MA where the previous job required a BA , and now you need a PhD for the other .
And it indicates the whole structure of education is shifting beneath our feet .
If you look at the interactions of a human brain , as we heard yesterday from a number of presentations , intelligence is wonderfully interactive .
The brain isn &apos;t divided into compartments .
In fact , creativity — which I define as the process of having original ideas that have value — more often than not comes about through the interaction of different disciplinary ways of seeing things .
By the way , there &apos;s a shaft of nerves that joins the two halves of the brain called the corpus callosum .
Because you are , aren &apos;t you ?
( Laughter ) No , she &apos;s good at some things , but if she &apos;s cooking , she &apos;s dealing with people on the phone , she &apos;s talking to the kids , she &apos;s painting the ceiling , she &apos;s doing open-heart surgery over here .
If I &apos;m cooking , the door is shut , the kids are out , the phone &apos;s on the hook , if she comes in I get annoyed .
I say , &quot; &quot; Terry , please , I &apos;m trying to fry an egg in here . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) &quot; Give me a break . &quot; ( Laughter )
I saw a great t-shirt recently , which said , &quot; &quot; If a man speaks his mind in a forest , and no woman hears him , is he still wrong ? &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) And the third thing about intelligence is , it &apos;s distinct .
And the school , in the &apos; 30s , wrote to her parents and said , &quot; We think Gillian has a learning disorder . &quot;
( Laughter ) People weren &apos;t aware they could have that . ( Laughter )
And when they got out , he said to her mother , &quot; &quot; Just stand and watch her . &quot; &quot; And the minute they left the room , she was on her feet , moving to the music .
And they watched for a few minutes and he turned to her mother and said , &quot; &quot; Mrs. Lynne , Gillian isn &apos;t sick ; she &apos;s a dancer .
Take her to a dance school . &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; What happened ? &quot; &quot; She said , &quot; &quot; She did . I can &apos;t tell you how wonderful it was .
We walked in this room and it was full of people like me .
People who had to move to think . &quot; &quot; Who had to move to think .
( Applause ) What I think it comes to is this : Al Gore spoke the other night about ecology and the revolution that was triggered by Rachel Carson .
I believe our only hope for the future is to adopt a new conception of human ecology , one in which we start to reconstitute our conception of the richness of human capacity .
Our education system has mined our minds in the way that we strip-mine the earth : for a particular commodity .
We have to rethink the fundamental principles on which we &apos;re educating our children .
And the only way we &apos;ll do it is by seeing our creative capacities for the richness they are and seeing our children for the hope that they are .
By the way — we may not see this future , but they will .
In the past few months , I &apos;ve been traveling for weeks at a time with only one suitcase of clothes .
One day , I was invited to an important event , and I wanted to wear something special and new for it .
So I looked through my suitcase and I couldn &apos;t find anything to wear .
I was lucky to be at the technology conference on that day , and I had access to 3D printers .
So I quickly designed a skirt on my computer , and I loaded the file on the printer .
It just printed the pieces overnight .
The next morning , I just took all the pieces , assembled them together in my hotel room , and this is actually the skirt that I &apos;m wearing right now .
( Applause ) So it wasn &apos;t the first time that I printed clothes .
For my senior collection at fashion design school , I decided to try and 3D print an entire fashion collection from my home .
The problem was that I barely knew anything about 3D printing , and I had only nine months to figure out how to print five fashionable looks .
I always felt most creative when I worked from home .
I loved experimenting with new materials , and I always tried to develop new techniques to make the most unique textiles for my fashion projects .
I loved going to old factories and weird stores in search of leftovers of strange powders and weird materials , and then bring them home to experiment on .
As you can probably imagine , my roommates didn &apos;t like that at all .
( Laughter ) So I decided to move on to working with big machines , ones that didn &apos;t fit in my living room .
I love the exact and the custom work I can do with all kinds of fashion technologies , like knitting machines and laser cutting and silk printing .
One summer break , I came here to New York for an internship at a fashion house in Chinatown .
We worked on two incredible dresses that were 3D printed .
They were amazing — like you can see here .
They were made from hard plastics and that &apos;s why they were very breakable .
The models couldn &apos;t sit in them , and they even got scratched from the plastics under their arms .
With 3D printing , the designers had so much freedom to make the dresses look exactly like they wanted , but still , they were very dependent on big and expensive industrial printers that were located in a lab far from their studio .
Later that year , a friend gave me a 3D printed necklace , printed using a home printer .
I knew that these printers were much cheaper and much more accessible than the ones we used at my internship .
So I looked at the necklace , and then I thought , &quot; &quot; If I can print a necklace from home , why not print my clothes from home , too ? &quot; &quot; I really liked the idea that I wouldn &apos;t have to go to the market and pick fabrics that someone else chose to sell — I could just design them and print them directly from home .
I found a small makerspace , where I learned everything I know about 3D printing .
Right away , they literally gave me the key to the lab , so I could experiment into the night , every night .
The main challenge was to find the right filament for printing clothes with .
So what is a filament ?
And I spent a month or so experimenting with PLA , which is a hard and scratchy , breakable material .
The breakthrough came when I was introduced to Filaflex , which is a new kind of filament .
It &apos;s strong , yet very flexible .
And with it , I was able to print the first garment , the red jacket that had the word &quot; &quot; Liberté &quot; &quot; — &quot; &quot; freedom &quot; &quot; in French — embedded into it .
I chose this word because I felt so empowered and free when I could just design a garment from my home and then print it by myself .
And actually , you can easily download this jacket , and easily change the word to something else .
For example , your name or your sweetheart &apos;s name .
( Laughter ) So the printer plates are small , so I had to piece the garment together , just like a puzzle .
And I wanted to solve another challenge .
I wanted to print textiles that I would use just like regular fabrics .
That &apos;s when I found an open-source file from an architect who designed a pattern that I love .
And with it , I was able to print a beautiful textile that I would use just like a regular fabric .
And it actually even looks a little bit like lace .
So I took his file and I modified it , and changed it , played with it — many kinds of versions out of it .
And I needed to print another 1,500 more hours to complete printing my collection .
So I brought six printers to my home and just printed 24-7 .
And this is actually a really slow process , but let &apos;s remember the Internet was significantly slower 20 years ago , so 3D printing will also accelerate and in no time you &apos;ll be able to print a T-Shirt in your home in just a couple of hours , or even minutes .
So you guys , you want to see what it looks like ?
Audience : Yeah !
( Applause ) Danit Peleg : Rebecca is wearing one of my five outfits .
Almost everything here she &apos;s wearing , I printed from my home .
Even her shoes are printed .
Audience : Wow !
Audience : Cool !
( Applause ) Danit Peleg : Thank you , Rebecca .
( To audience ) Thank you , guys .
So I think in the future , materials will evolve , and they will look and feel like fabrics we know today , like cotton or silk .
Imagine personalized clothes that fit exactly to your measurements .
Music was once a very physical thing .
You would have to go to the record shop and buy CDs , but now you can just download the music — digital music — directly to your phone .
Fashion is also a very physical thing .
And I wonder what our world will look like when our clothes will be digital , just like this skirt is .
Thank you so much .
( Applause ) &#91; Thank You &#93; ( Applause )
Hi . My name is Cameron Russell , and for the last little while , I &apos;ve been a model .
Actually , for 10 years .
And I feel like there &apos;s an uncomfortable tension in the room right now because I should not have worn this dress .
( Laughter ) So luckily , I brought an outfit change .
This is the first outfit change on the TED stage , so you guys are pretty lucky to witness it , I think .
If some of the women were really horrified when I came out , you don &apos;t have to tell me now , but I &apos;ll find out later on Twitter .
( Laughter ) I &apos;d also note that I &apos;m quite privileged to be able to transform what you think of me in a very brief 10 seconds .
Not everybody gets to do that .
These heels are very uncomfortable , so good thing I wasn &apos;t going to wear them .
The worst part is putting this sweater over my head , because that &apos;s when you &apos;ll all laugh at me , so don &apos;t do anything while it &apos;s over my head .
All right .
So , why did I do that ?
That was awkward .
( Laughter ) Well — ( Laughter ) Hopefully not as awkward as that picture .
Image is powerful , but also , image is superficial .
I just totally transformed what you thought of me , in six seconds .
And in this picture , I had actually never had a boyfriend in real life .
I was totally uncomfortable , and the photographer was telling me to arch my back and put my hand in that guy &apos;s hair .
And of course , barring surgery , or the fake tan that I got two days ago for work , there &apos;s very little that we can do to transform how we look , and how we look , though it is superficial and immutable , has a huge impact on our lives .
So today , for me , being fearless means being honest .
And I am on this stage because I am a model .
I am on this stage because I am a pretty , white woman , and in my industry , we call that a sexy girl .
I &apos;m going to answer the questions that people always ask me , but with an honest twist .
So the first question is , how do you become a model ?
I always just say , &quot; &quot; Oh , I was scouted , &quot; &quot; but that means nothing .
The real way that I became a model is I won a genetic lottery , and I am the recipient of a legacy , and maybe you &apos;re wondering what is a legacy .
Well , for the past few centuries we have defined beauty not just as health and youth and symmetry that we &apos;re biologically programmed to admire , but also as tall , slender figures , and femininity and white skin .
And this is a legacy that was built for me , and it &apos;s a legacy that I &apos;ve been cashing out on .
And I know there are people in the audience who are skeptical at this point , and maybe there are some fashionistas who are like , &quot; Wait . Naomi . Tyra . Joan Smalls . Liu Wen . &quot;
And first , I commend you on your model knowledge . Very impressive .
( Laughter ) But unfortunately , I have to inform you that in 2007 , a very inspired NYU Ph.D. student counted all the models on the runway , every single one that was hired , and of the 677 models that were hired , only 27 , or less than four percent , were non-white .
The next question people always ask is , &quot; Can I be a model when I grow up ? &quot;
And the first answer is , &quot; &quot; I don &apos;t know , they don &apos;t put me in charge of that . &quot; &quot; But the second answer , and what I really want to say to these little girls is , &quot; &quot; Why ? You know ? You can be anything .
You could be the President of the United States , or the inventor of the next Internet , or a ninja cardiothoracic surgeon poet , which would be awesome , because you &apos;d be the first one . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) If , after this amazing list , they still are like , &quot; No , no , Cameron , I want to be a model , &quot; well , then I say , &quot; &quot; Be my boss . &quot; &quot; Because I &apos;m not in charge of anything , and you could be the editor in chief of American Vogue or the CEO of H &amp; M , or the next Steven Meisel .
It &apos;s out of your control , and it &apos;s awesome , and it &apos;s not a career path .
I will demonstrate for you now 10 years of accumulated model knowledge , because unlike cardiothoracic surgeons , it can just be distilled right now .
So , if the photographer is right there , the light is right there , like a nice HMI , and the client says , &quot; &quot; We want a walking shot , &quot; &quot; this leg goes first , nice and long , this arm goes back , this arm goes forward , the head is at three quarters , and you just go back and forth , just do that , and then you look back at your imaginary friends , 300 , 400 , 500 times .
( Laughter ) It will look something like this . ( Laughter )
Hopefully less awkward than that one in the middle .
Unfortunately , after you &apos;ve gone to school , and you have a résumé and you &apos;ve done a few jobs , you can &apos;t say anything anymore , so if you say you want to be the President of the United States , but your résumé reads , &quot; &quot; Underwear Model : 10 years , &quot; &quot; people give you a funny look .
The next question is , &quot; &quot; Do they retouch all the photos ? &quot; &quot; And yeah , they pretty much retouch all the photos , but that is only a small component of what &apos;s happening .
This picture is the very first picture that I ever took , and it &apos;s also the very first time that I had worn a bikini , and I didn &apos;t even have my period yet .
This is what I looked like with my grandma just a few months earlier .
Here &apos;s me on the same day as this shoot .
My friend got to come .
Here &apos;s me at a slumber party a few days before I shot French Vogue .
Here &apos;s me on the soccer team and in V Magazine .
And here &apos;s me today .
And I hope what you &apos;re seeing is that these pictures are not pictures of me .
They are constructions , and they are constructions by a group of professionals , by hairstylists and makeup artists and photographers and stylists and all of their assistants and pre-production and post-production , and they build this .
That &apos;s not me .
Okay , so the next question people always ask me is , &quot; Do you get free stuff ? &quot;
( Laughter ) I do have too many 8-inch heels which I never get to wear , except for earlier , but the free stuff that I get is the free stuff that I get in real life , and that &apos;s what we don &apos;t like to talk about .
I grew up in Cambridge , and one time I went into a store and I forgot my money and they gave me the dress for free .
When I was a teenager , I was driving with my friend who was an awful driver and she ran a red and of course , we got pulled over , and all it took was a &quot; &quot; Sorry , officer , &quot; &quot; and we were on our way .
And I got these free things because of how I look , not who I am , and there are people paying a cost for how they look and not who they are .
I live in New York , and last year , of the 140,000 teenagers that were stopped and frisked , 86 % of them were black and Latino , and most of them were young men .
And there are only 177,000 young black and Latino men in New York , so for them , it &apos;s not a question of , &quot; &quot; Will I get stopped ? &quot; &quot; but &quot; &quot; How many times will I get stopped ? When will I get stopped ? &quot; &quot; When I was researching this talk , I found out that of the 13-year-old girls in the United States , 53 % don &apos;t like their bodies , and that number goes to 78 % by the time that they &apos;re 17 .
So , the last question people ask me is , &quot; What is it like to be a model ? &quot;
And I think the answer that they &apos;re looking for is , &quot; &quot; If you are a little bit skinnier and you have shinier hair , you will be so happy and fabulous . &quot; &quot; And when we &apos;re backstage , we give an answer that maybe makes it seem like that .
We say , &quot; &quot; It &apos;s really amazing to travel , and it &apos;s amazing to get to work with creative , inspired , passionate people . &quot; &quot; And those things are true , but they &apos;re only one half of the story , because the thing that we never say on camera , that I have never said on camera , is , &quot; I am insecure . &quot;
And I &apos;m insecure because I have to think about what I look like every day .
And if you ever are wondering , &quot; If I have thinner thighs and shinier hair , will I be happier ? &quot;
you just need to meet a group of models , because they have the thinnest thighs , the shiniest hair and the coolest clothes , and they &apos;re the most physically insecure women probably on the planet .
When I was writing this talk , I found it very difficult to strike an honest balance , because on the one hand , I felt very uncomfortable to come out here and say , &quot; Look I &apos;ve received all these benefits from a deck stacked in my favor , &quot; and it also felt really uncomfortable to follow that up with , &quot; and it doesn &apos;t always make me happy . &quot;
But mostly it was difficult to unpack a legacy of gender and racial oppression when I am one of the biggest beneficiaries .
But I &apos;m also happy and honored to be up here and I think that it &apos;s great that I got to come before 10 or 20 or 30 years had passed and I &apos;d had more agency in my career , because maybe then I wouldn &apos;t tell the story of how I got my first job , or maybe I wouldn &apos;t tell the story of how I paid for college , which seems so important right now .
If there &apos;s a takeaway to this talk , I hope it &apos;s that we all feel more comfortable acknowledging the power of image in our perceived successes and our perceived failures .
Thank you .
( Applause )
I &apos;m here today to talk about the two ideas that , at least based on my observations at Khan Academy , are kind of the core , or the key leverage points for learning .
And it &apos;s the idea of mastery and the idea of mindset .
A lot of them were having trouble with math at first , because they had all of these gaps accumulated in their learning .
And because of that , at some point they got to an algebra class and they might have been a little bit shaky on some of the pre-algebra , and because of that , they thought they didn &apos;t have the math gene .
I saw it in the early days when I was uploading some of those videos on YouTube , and I realized that people who were not my cousins were watching .
( Laughter ) And at first , those comments were just simple thank-yous .
I thought that was a pretty big deal .
I don &apos;t know how much time you all spend on YouTube .
Most of the comments are not &quot; &quot; Thank you . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) They &apos;re a little edgier than that .
But then the comments got a little more intense , student after student saying that they had grown up not liking math .
It was getting difficult as they got into more advanced math topics .
By the time they got to algebra , they had so many gaps in their knowledge they couldn &apos;t engage with it .
They thought they didn &apos;t have the math gene .
They found resources like Khan Academy and they were able to fill in those gaps and master those concepts , and that reinforced their mindset that it wasn &apos;t fixed ; that they actually were capable of learning mathematics .
And in a lot of ways , this is how you would master a lot of things in life .
It &apos;s the way you would learn a martial art .
In a martial art , you would practice the white belt skills as long as necessary , and only when you &apos;ve mastered it you would move on to become a yellow belt .
It &apos;s the way you learn a musical instrument : you practice the basic piece over and over again , and only when you &apos;ve mastered it , you go on to the more advanced one .
But what we point out — this is not the way a traditional academic model is structured , the type of academic model that most of us grew up in .
In a traditional academic model , we group students together , usually by age , and around middle school , by age and perceived ability , and we shepherd them all together at the same pace .
And what typically happens , let &apos;s say we &apos;re in a middle school pre-algebra class , and the current unit is on exponents , the teacher will give a lecture on exponents , then we &apos;ll go home , do some homework .
The next morning , we &apos;ll review the homework , then another lecture , homework , lecture , homework .
That will continue for about two or three weeks , and then we get a test .
On that test , maybe I get a 75 percent , maybe you get a 90 percent , maybe you get a 95 percent .
And even though the test identified gaps in our knowledge , I didn &apos;t know 25 percent of the material .
Even the A student , what was the five percent they didn &apos;t know ?
Even though we &apos;ve identified the gaps , the whole class will then move on to the next subject , probably a more advanced subject that &apos;s going to build on those gaps .
It might be logarithms or negative exponents .
And that process continues , and you immediately start to realize how strange this is .
I didn &apos;t know 25 percent of the more foundational thing , and now I &apos;m being pushed to the more advanced thing .
And this will continue for months , years , all the way until at some point , I might be in an algebra class or trigonometry class and I hit a wall .
And it &apos;s not because algebra is fundamentally difficult or because the student isn &apos;t bright .
It &apos;s because I &apos;m seeing an equation and they &apos;re dealing with exponents and that 30 percent that I didn &apos;t know is showing up .
And then I start to disengage .
To appreciate how absurd that is , imagine if we did other things in our life that way .
Say , home-building .
( Laughter ) So we bring in the contractor and say , &quot; &quot; We were told we have two weeks to build a foundation .
Do what you can . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) So they do what they can .
Maybe it rains .
Maybe some of the supplies don &apos;t show up .
And two weeks later , the inspector comes , looks around , says , &quot; &quot; OK , the concrete is still wet right over there , that part &apos;s not quite up to code ...
I &apos;ll give it an 80 percent . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) You say , &quot; &quot; Great ! That &apos;s a C. Let &apos;s build the first floor . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Same thing .
We have two weeks , do what you can , inspector shows up , it &apos;s a 75 percent .
Great , that &apos;s a D-plus .
Second floor , third floor , and all of a sudden , while you &apos;re building the third floor , the whole structure collapses .
But what was really broken was the process .
We were artificially constraining how long we had to something , pretty much ensuring a variable outcome , and we took the trouble of inspecting and identifying those gaps , but then we built right on top of it .
So the idea of mastery learning is to do the exact opposite .
Instead of artificially constraining , fixing when and how long you work on something , pretty much ensuring that variable outcome , the A , B , C , D , F — do it the other way around .
What &apos;s variable is when and how long a student actually has to work on something , and what &apos;s fixed is that they actually master the material .
And it &apos;s important to realize that not only will this make the student learn their exponents better , but it &apos;ll reinforce the right mindset muscles .
It makes them realize that if you got 20 percent wrong on something , it doesn &apos;t mean that you have a C branded in your DNA somehow .
It means that you should just keep working on it .
You should have grit ; you should have perseverance ; you should take agency over your learning .
Now , a lot of skeptics might say , well , hey , this is all great , philosophically , this whole idea of mastery-based learning and its connection to mindset , students taking agency over their learning .
It makes a lot of sense , but it seems impractical .
To actually do it , every student would be on their own track .
It would have to be personalized , you &apos;d have to have private tutors and worksheets for every student .
And these aren &apos;t new ideas — there were experiments in Winnetka , Illinois , 100 years ago , where they did mastery-based learning and saw great results , but they said it wouldn &apos;t scale because it was logistically difficult .
The teacher had to give different worksheets to every student , give on-demand assessments .
But now today , it &apos;s no longer impractical .
We have the tools to do it .
Students see an explanation at their own time and pace ?
There &apos;s on-demand video for that .
There &apos;s adaptive exercises readily available for students .
And when that happens , all sorts of neat things happen .
One , the students can actually master the concepts , but they &apos;re also building their growth mindset , they &apos;re building grit , perseverance , they &apos;re taking agency over their learning .
And all sorts of beautiful things can start to happen in the actual classroom .
Instead of it being focused on the lecture , students can interact with each other .
They can get deeper mastery over the material .
They can go into simulations , Socratic dialogue .
To appreciate what we &apos;re talking about and the tragedy of lost potential here , I &apos;d like to give a little bit of a thought experiment .
If we were to go 400 years into the past to Western Europe , which even then , was one of the more literate parts of the planet , you would see that about 15 percent of the population knew how to read .
And I suspect that if you asked someone who did know how to read , say a member of the clergy , &quot; What percentage of the population do you think is even capable of reading ? &quot;
They might say , &quot; &quot; Well , with a great education system , maybe 20 or 30 percent . &quot; &quot; But if you fast forward to today , we know that that prediction would have been wildly pessimistic , that pretty close to 100 percent of the population is capable of reading .
But if I were to ask you a similar question : &quot; &quot; What percentage of the population do you think is capable of truly mastering calculus , or understanding organic chemistry , or being able to contribute to cancer research ? &quot; &quot; A lot of you might say , &quot; &quot; Well , with a great education system , maybe 20 , 30 percent . &quot; &quot; But what if that estimate is just based on your own experience in a non-mastery framework , your own experience with yourself or observing your peers , where you &apos;re being pushed at this set pace through classes , accumulating all these gaps ?
Even when you got that 95 percent , what was that five percent you missed ?
And it keeps accumulating — you get to an advanced class , all of a sudden you hit a wall and say , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m not meant to be a cancer researcher ; not meant to be a physicist ; not meant to be a mathematician . &quot; &quot; I suspect that that actually is the case , but if you were allowed to be operating in a mastery framework , if you were allowed to really take agency over your learning , and when you get something wrong , embrace it — view that failure as a moment of learning — that number , the percent that could really master calculus or understand organic chemistry ,
is actually a lot closer to 100 percent .
And this isn &apos;t even just a &quot; &quot; nice to have . &quot; &quot; I think it &apos;s a social imperative .
We &apos;re exiting what you could call the industrial age and we &apos;re going into this information revolution .
And it &apos;s clear that some things are happening .
At the base of the pyramid , you needed human labor .
In the middle of the pyramid , you had an information processing , a bureaucracy class , and at the top of the pyramid , you had your owners of capital and your entrepreneurs and your creative class .
But we know what &apos;s happening already , as we go into this information revolution .
The bottom of that pyramid , automation , is going to take over .
Even that middle tier , information processing , that &apos;s what computers are good at .
So as a society , we have a question : All this new productivity is happening because of this technology , but who participates in it ?
Is it just going to be that very top of the pyramid , in which case , what does everyone else do ?
How do they operate ?
Or do we do something that &apos;s more aspirational ?
Do we actually attempt to invert the pyramid , where you have a large creative class , where almost everyone can participate as an entrepreneur , an artist , as a researcher ?
And I don &apos;t think that this is utopian .
I really think that this is all based on the idea that if we let people tap into their potential by mastering concepts , by being able to exercise agency over their learning , that they can get there .
And when you think of it as just a citizen of the world , it &apos;s pretty exciting .
I mean , think about the type of equity we can we have , and the rate at which civilization could even progress .
And so , I &apos;m pretty optimistic about it .
What &apos;s happening to the climate ?
It is unbelievably bad .
This is , obviously , that famous view now of the Arctic , which is likely to be gone at this point in the next three or four or five years . Very , very , very scary .
So we all look at what we can do .
And when you look at the worldwide sources of CO2 , 52 percent are tied to buildings .
Only nine percent is passenger cars , interestingly enough .
So we ran off to a sushi bar .
And at that sushi bar we came up with a great idea .
And it was something called EcoRock .
And we said we could redesign the 115-year-old gypsum drywall process that generates 20 billion pounds of CO2 a year .
So it was a big idea . We wanted to reduce that by 80 percent , which is exactly what we &apos;ve done .
We started R &amp; D in 2006 .
Decided to use recycled content from cement and steel manufacturing .
There is the inside of our lab . We haven &apos;t shown this before .
But our people had to do some 5,000 different mixes to get this right , to hit our targets .
And they worked absolutely very , very , very hard .
So then we went forward and built our production line in China .
We don &apos;t build this production equipment any longer in the U.S. , unfortunately .
We did the line install over the summer .
We started right there , with absolutely nothing .
You &apos;re seeing for the first time , a brand new drywall production line , not made using gypsum at all .
That &apos;s the finished production line there .
We got our first panel out on December third .
That is the slurry being poured onto paper , basically . That &apos;s the line running .
The exciting thing is , look at the faces of the people .
And they are so excited . That &apos;s the first board off the line .
Our Vice President of Operation kissing the board . Obviously very , very excited .
But this has a huge , huge impact on the environment .
We signed the first panel just a few weeks after that , had a great signing ceremony , leading to people hopefully using these products across the world .
And we &apos;ve got Cradle-to-Cradle Gold on this thing .
Thank you . Thank you .
So here is what we learned : 8,000 gallons of gas equivalent to build one house .
You probably had no idea . It &apos;s like driving around the world six times .
Look around the room : chairs , wood , everything around us has to change or we &apos;re not going to lick this problem .
Don &apos;t listen to the people who say you can &apos;t do this , because anyone can .
And these job losses , we can fix them with green-collar jobs .
Two and a half million cars worth of gypsum , you know , CO2 generated . Right ?
So what will you do ? I &apos;ll tell you what I did and why I did it . And I know my time &apos;s up .
Those are my kids , Natalie and David .
When they have their kids , 2050 , they &apos;d better look back at Grandpa and say , &quot; &quot; Hey , you gave it a good shot . You did the best you could with the team that you had . &quot; &quot; So my hope is that when you leave TED , you will look at reducing your carbon footprint in however you can do it .
And if you don &apos;t know how , please find me — I will help you .
Last but not least , Bill Gates , I know you invented Windows .
Wait till you see , maybe next year , what kind of windows we &apos;ve invented .
Thank you so much .
( Applause )
All right , I want to see a show of hands : how many of you have unfriended someone on Facebook because they said something offensive about politics or religion , childcare , food ?
( Laughter ) And how many of you know at least one person that you avoid because you just don &apos;t want to talk to them ? ( Laughter )
You know , it used to be that in order to have a polite conversation , we just had to follow the advice of Henry Higgins in &quot; &quot; My Fair Lady &quot; &quot; : Stick to the weather and your health .
But these days , with climate change and anti-vaxxing , those subjects — ( Laughter ) are not safe either .
So this world that we live in , this world in which every conversation has the potential to devolve into an argument , where our politicians can &apos;t speak to one another and where even the most trivial of issues have someone fighting both passionately for it and against it , it &apos;s not normal .
Pew Research did a study of 10,000 American adults , and they found that at this moment , we are more polarized , we are more divided , than we ever have been in history .
We &apos;re less likely to compromise , which means we &apos;re not listening to each other .
And we make decisions about where to live , who to marry and even who our friends are going to be , based on what we already believe .
Again , that means we &apos;re not listening to each other .
A conversation requires a balance between talking and listening , and somewhere along the way , we lost that balance .
Now , part of that is due to technology .
The smartphones that you all either have in your hands or close enough that you could grab them really quickly .
And many of them , almost most of them , are more likely to text their friends than they are to talk to them face to face .
There &apos;s this great piece in The Atlantic .
It was written by a high school teacher named Paul Barnwell .
And he gave his kids a communication project .
He wanted to teach them how to speak on a specific subject without using notes .
And he said this : &quot; &quot; I came to realize ... &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) &quot; &quot; I came to realize that conversational competence might be the single most overlooked skill we fail to teach .
Kids spend hours each day engaging with ideas and each other through screens , but rarely do they have an opportunity to hone their interpersonal communications skills .
It might sound like a funny question , but we have to ask ourselves : Is there any 21st-century skill more important than being able to sustain coherent , confident conversation ? &quot; &quot; Now , I make my living talking to people : Nobel Prize winners , truck drivers , billionaires , kindergarten teachers , heads of state , plumbers .
I talk to people that I like . I talk to people that I don &apos;t like .
I talk to some people that I disagree with deeply on a personal level .
But I still have a great conversation with them .
So I &apos;d like to spend the next 10 minutes or so teaching you how to talk and how to listen .
Many of you have already heard a lot of advice on this , things like look the person in the eye , think of interesting topics to discuss in advance , look , nod and smile to show that you &apos;re paying attention , repeat back what you just heard or summarize it .
So I want you to forget all of that .
It is crap .
( Laughter ) There is no reason to learn how to show you &apos;re paying attention if you are in fact paying attention . ( Laughter )
( Applause ) Now , I actually use the exact same skills as a professional interviewer that I do in regular life .
So , I &apos;m going to teach you how to interview people , and that &apos;s actually going to help you learn how to be better conversationalists .
Learn to have a conversation without wasting your time , without getting bored , and , please God , without offending anybody .
We &apos;ve all had really great conversations .
We &apos;ve had them before . We know what it &apos;s like .
The kind of conversation where you walk away feeling engaged and inspired , or where you feel like you &apos;ve made a real connection or you &apos;ve been perfectly understood .
There is no reason why most of your interactions can &apos;t be like that .
So I have 10 basic rules . I &apos;m going to walk you through all of them , but honestly , if you just choose one of them and master it , you &apos;ll already enjoy better conversations .
Number one : Don &apos;t multitask .
Be in that moment .
Don &apos;t think about your argument you had with your boss .
Don &apos;t think about what you &apos;re going to have for dinner .
If you want to get out of the conversation , get out of the conversation , but don &apos;t be half in it and half out of it .
Number two : Don &apos;t pontificate .
If you want to state your opinion without any opportunity for response or argument or pushback or growth , write a blog .
( Laughter ) Now , there &apos;s a really good reason why I don &apos;t allow pundits on my show : Because they &apos;re really boring .
If they &apos;re conservative , they &apos;re going to hate Obama and food stamps and abortion .
If they &apos;re liberal , they &apos;re going to hate big banks and oil corporations and Dick Cheney .
Totally predictable .
And you don &apos;t want to be like that .
You need to enter every conversation assuming that you have something to learn .
The famed therapist M. Scott Peck said that true listening requires a setting aside of oneself .
And sometimes that means setting aside your personal opinion .
He said that sensing this acceptance , the speaker will become less and less vulnerable and more and more likely to open up the inner recesses of his or her mind to the listener .
Again , assume that you have something to learn .
Bill Nye : &quot; &quot; Everyone you will ever meet knows something that you don &apos;t . &quot; &quot; I put it this way : Everybody is an expert in something .
Number three : Use open-ended questions .
In this case , take a cue from journalists .
If I ask you , &quot; &quot; Were you terrified ? &quot; &quot; you &apos;re going to respond to the most powerful word in that sentence , which is &quot; &quot; terrified , &quot; &quot; and the answer is &quot; &quot; Yes , I was &quot; &quot; or &quot; &quot; No , I wasn &apos;t . &quot; &quot; &quot; Were you angry ? &quot; &quot; Yes , I was very angry . &quot;
Let them describe it . They &apos;re the ones that know .
Try asking them things like , &quot; &quot; What was that like ? &quot; &quot; &quot; How did that feel ? &quot;
Because then they might have to stop for a moment and think about it , and you &apos;re going to get a much more interesting response .
Number four : Go with the flow .
That means thoughts will come into your mind and you need to let them go out of your mind .
We &apos;ve heard interviews often in which a guest is talking for several minutes and then the host comes back in and asks a question which seems like it comes out of nowhere , or it &apos;s already been answered .
That means the host probably stopped listening two minutes ago because he thought of this really clever question , and he was just bound and determined to say that .
And we do the exact same thing .
We &apos;re sitting there having a conversation with someone , and then we remember that time that we met Hugh Jackman in a coffee shop .
( Laughter ) And we stop listening .
Stories and ideas are going to come to you .
Number five : If you don &apos;t know , say that you don &apos;t know .
Now , people on the radio , especially on NPR , are much more aware that they &apos;re going on the record , and so they &apos;re more careful about what they claim to be an expert in and what they claim to know for sure .
Do that . Err on the side of caution .
Talk should not be cheap .
Number six : Don &apos;t equate your experience with theirs .
If they &apos;re talking about having lost a family member , don &apos;t start talking about the time you lost a family member .
If they &apos;re talking about the trouble they &apos;re having at work , don &apos;t tell them about how much you hate your job .
All experiences are individual .
And , more importantly , it is not about you .
You don &apos;t need to take that moment to prove how amazing you are or how much you &apos;ve suffered .
Somebody asked Stephen Hawking once what his IQ was , and he said , &quot; I have no idea . People who brag about their IQs are losers . &quot;
( Laughter ) Conversations are not a promotional opportunity .
Number seven : Try not to repeat yourself .
It &apos;s condescending , and it &apos;s really boring , and we tend to do it a lot .
Especially in work conversations or in conversations with our kids , we have a point to make , so we just keep rephrasing it over and over .
Don &apos;t do that .
Number eight : Stay out of the weeds .
Frankly , people don &apos;t care about the years , the names , the dates , all those details that you &apos;re struggling to come up with in your mind .
They don &apos;t care . What they care about is you .
They care about what you &apos;re like , what you have in common .
So forget the details . Leave them out .
Number nine : This is not the last one , but it is the most important one .
Listen .
I cannot tell you how many really important people have said that listening is perhaps the most , the number one most important skill that you could develop .
Buddha said , and I &apos;m paraphrasing , &quot; If your mouth is open , you &apos;re not learning . &quot;
And Calvin Coolidge said , &quot; &quot; No man ever listened his way out of a job . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Why do we not listen to each other ?
Number one , we &apos;d rather talk .
I don &apos;t have to hear anything I &apos;m not interested in .
I &apos;m the center of attention .
I can bolster my own identity .
But there &apos;s another reason : We get distracted .
The average person talks at about 225 word per minute , but we can listen at up to 500 words per minute .
So our minds are filling in those other 275 words .
And look , I know , it takes effort and energy to actually pay attention to someone , but if you can &apos;t do that , you &apos;re not in a conversation .
You &apos;re just two people shouting out barely related sentences in the same place .
( Laughter ) You have to listen to one another .
Stephen Covey said it very beautifully .
He said , &quot; &quot; Most of us don &apos;t listen with the intent to understand .
We listen with the intent to reply . &quot; &quot; One more rule , number 10 , and it &apos;s this one : Be brief .
&#91; A good conversation is like a miniskirt ; short enough to retain interest , but long enough to cover the subject . — My Sister &#93; ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) All of this boils down to the same basic concept , and it is this one : Be interested in other people .
You know , I grew up with a very famous grandfather , and there was kind of a ritual in my home .
He was the mayor of Sacramento .
She won a Pulitzer Prize . He &apos;s a Russian ballet dancer . &quot; &quot; And I kind of grew up assuming everyone has some hidden , amazing thing about them .
And honestly , I think it &apos;s what makes me a better host .
I keep my mouth shut as often as I possibly can , I keep my mind open , and I &apos;m always prepared to be amazed , and I &apos;m never disappointed .
You do the same thing .
Go out , talk to people , listen to people , and , most importantly , be prepared to be amazed .
Thanks .
( Applause )
In 2012 , when I painted the minaret of Jara Mosque in my hometown of Gabés , in the south of Tunisia , I never thought that graffiti would bring so much attention to a city .
At the beginning , I was just looking for a wall in my hometown , and it happened that the minaret was built in &apos; 94 .
And for 18 years , those 57 meters of concrete stayed grey .
When I met the imam for the first time , and I told him what I wanted to do , he was like , &quot; &quot; Thank God you finally came , &quot; &quot; and he told me that for years he was waiting for somebody to do something on it .
The most amazing thing about this imam is that he didn &apos;t ask me anything — neither a sketch , or what I was going to write .
In every work that I create , I write messages with my style of calligraffiti — a mix of calligraphy and graffiti .
I use quotes or poetry .
For the minaret , I thought that the most relevant message to be put on a mosque should come from the Quran , so I picked this verse : &quot; &quot; Oh humankind , we have created you from a male and a female , and made you people and tribe , so you may know each other . &quot; &quot; It was a universal call for peace , tolerance , and acceptance coming from the side that we don &apos;t usually portray in a good way in the media .
I was amazed to see how the local community reacted to the painting , and how it made them proud to see the minaret getting so much attention from international press all around the world .
For the imam , it was not just the painting ; it was really deeper than that .
He hoped that this minaret would become a monument for the city , and attract people to this forgotten place of Tunisia .
The universality of the message , the political context of Tunisia at this time , and the fact that I was writing Quran in a graffiti way were not insignificant .
It reunited the community .
Bringing people , future generations , together through Arabic calligraphy is what I do .
Writing messages is the essence of my artwork .
What is funny , actually , is that even Arabic-speaking people really need to focus a lot to decipher what I &apos;m writing .
You don &apos;t need to know the meaning to feel the piece .
I think that Arabic script touches your soul before it reaches your eyes .
There is a beauty in it that you don &apos;t need to translate .
Arabic script speaks to anyone , I believe ; to you , to you , to you , to anybody , and then when you get the meaning , you feel connected to it .
I always make sure to write messages that are relevant to the place where I &apos;m painting , but messages that have a universal dimension , so anybody around the world can connect to it .
I was born and raised in France , in Paris , and I started learning how to write and read Arabic when I was 18 .
Today I only write messages in Arabic .
One of the reasons this is so important to me , is because of all the reaction that I &apos;ve experienced all around the world .
In Rio de Janeiro , I translated this Portuguese poem from Gabriela Tôrres Barbosa , who was giving an homage to the poor people of the favela , and then I painted it on the rooftop .
The local community were really intrigued by what I was doing , but as soon as I gave them the meaning of the calligraphy , they thanked me , as they felt connected to the piece .
In South Africa , in Cape Town , the local community of Philippi offered me the only concrete wall of the slum .
It was a school , and I wrote on it a quote from Nelson Mandela , saying , &quot; &quot; &#91; in Arabic &#93; , &quot; &quot; which means , &quot; &quot; It seems impossible until it &apos;s done . &quot; &quot; Then this guy came to me and said , &quot; &quot; Man , why you don &apos;t write in English ? &quot; &quot; and I replied to him , &quot; &quot; I would consider your concern legit if you asked me why I didn &apos;t write in Zulu . &quot; &quot; In Paris , once , there was this event , and someone gave his wall to be painted .
And when he saw I was painting in Arabic , he got so mad — actually , hysterical — and he asked for the wall to be erased .
I was mad and disappointed .
But a week later , the organizer of the event asked me to come back , and he told me that there was a wall right in front of this guy &apos;s house .
So , this guy — ( Laughter ) like , was forced to see it every day .
At the beginning , I was going to write , &quot; &quot; &#91; In Arabic &#93; , &quot; &quot; which means , &quot; &quot; In your face , &quot; &quot; but — ( Laughter ) I decided to be smarter and I wrote , &quot; &quot; &#91; In Arabic &#93; , &quot; &quot; which means , &quot; &quot; Open your heart . &quot; &quot; I &apos;m really proud of my culture , and I &apos;m trying to be an ambassador of it through my artwork .
And I hope that I can break the stereotypes we all know , with the beauty of Arabic script .
Today , I don &apos;t write the translation of the message anymore on the wall .
I don &apos;t want the poetry of the calligraphy to be broken , as it &apos;s art and you can appreciate it without knowing the meaning , as you can enjoy any music from other countries .
Some people see that as a rejection or a closed door , but for me , it &apos;s more an invitation — to my language , to my culture , and to my art .
Thank you .
( Applause )
Nine years ago , I worked for the U.S. government in Iraq , helping rebuild the electricity infrastructure .
And I was there , and I worked in that job because I believe that technology can improve people &apos;s lives .
One afternoon , I had tea with a storekeeper at the Al Rasheed Hotel in Baghdad , and he said to me , &quot; &quot; You Americans , you can put a man on the moon , but when I get home tonight , I won &apos;t be able to turn on my lights . &quot; &quot; At the time , the U.S. government had spent more than two billion dollars on electricity reconstruction .
How do you ensure technology reaches users ?
How do you put it in their hands so that it is useful ?
So those are the questions that my colleagues and I at D-Rev ask ourselves .
And D-Rev is short for Design Revolution .
And I took over the organization four years ago and really focused it on developing products that actually reach users , and not just any users , but customers who live on less than four dollars a day .
One of the key areas we &apos;ve been working on recently is medical devices , and while it may not be obvious that medical devices have something in common with Iraq &apos;s electricity grid then , there are some commonalities .
Despite the advanced technology , it &apos;s not reaching the people who need it most .
So I &apos;m going to tell you about one of the projects we &apos;ve been working on , the ReMotion Knee , and it &apos;s a prosthetic knee for above-knee amputees .
And this project started when the Jaipur Foot Organization , the largest fitter of prosthetic limbs in the world , came to the Bay Area and they said , &quot; We need a better knee . &quot;
Chances are , if you &apos;re living on less than four dollars a day , and you &apos;re an amputee , you &apos;ve lost your limb in a vehicle accident .
Most people think it &apos;s land mines , but it &apos;s a vehicle accident .
You &apos;re walking by the side of the road and you &apos;re hit by a truck , or you &apos;re trying to to jump on a moving train , you &apos;re late for work , and your pant leg gets caught .
And the reality is that if you don &apos;t have much money , like this young named Kamal right here , the option you really have is a bamboo staff to get around .
And how big a problem is this ?
There &apos;s over three million amputees every year who need a new or replacement knee .
And what are their options ?
This is a high-end . This is what we &apos;d call a &quot; &quot; smart knee . &quot; &quot; It &apos;s got a microprocessor inside .
It can pretty much do anything , but it &apos;s 20,000 dollars , and to give you a sense of who wears this , veterans , American veterans coming back from Afghanistan or Iraq would be fit with something like this .
This is a low-end titanium knee .
It &apos;s a polycentric knee , and all that that means is the mechanism , is a four-bar mechanism , that mimics a natural human knee .
But at 1,400 dollars , it &apos;s still too expensive for people like Kamal .
And lastly , here you see a low-end knee .
This is a knee that &apos;s been designed specifically for poor people .
And while you have affordability , you &apos;ve lost on functionality .
The mechanism here is a single axis , and a single axis is like a door hinge .
So you can think about how unstable that would be .
And this is the type of mechanism that the Jaipur Foot Organization was using when they were looking for a better knee , and I just wanted to give you a sense of what a leg system looks like , because I &apos;m showing you all these knees and I imagine it &apos;s hard to think how it all fits together .
So at the top you have a socket , and this fits over someone &apos;s residual limb , and everyone &apos;s residual limb is a little bit different .
And then you have the knee , and here I &apos;ve got a single axis on the knee so you can see how it rotates , and then a pylon , and then a foot .
And we &apos;ve been able to develop a knee , a polycentric knee , so that type of knee that acts like a human knee , mimics human gait , for 80 dollars retail .
( Applause ) But the key is , you can have this great invention , you can have this great design , but how do you get it to the people who most need it ?
How do you ensure it gets to them and it improves their lives ?
So at D-Rev , we &apos;ve done some other projects , and we looked at three things that we really believe gets technologies to customers , to users , to people who need it .
And the first thing is that the product needs to be world class .
It needs to perform on par or better than the best products on the market .
Regardless of your income level , you want the most beautiful , the best product that there is .
I &apos;m going to show you a video now of a man named Ash . You can see him walking .
He &apos;s wearing the same knee system here with a single axis knee .
And he &apos;s doing a 10-meter walk test .
And you &apos;ll notice that he &apos;s struggling with stability as he &apos;s walking .
And something that &apos;s not obvious , that you can &apos;t see , is that it &apos;s psychologically draining to walk and to be preventing yourself from falling .
Now this is a video of Kamal .
You remember Kamal earlier , holding the bamboo staff .
He &apos;s wearing one of the earlier versions of our knee , and he &apos;s doing that same 10-meter walk test .
And you can see his stability is much better .
So world class isn &apos;t just about technical performance .
It &apos;s also about human performance .
And most medical devices , we &apos;ve learned , as we &apos;ve dug in , are really designed for Westerners , for wealthier economies .
But the reality is our users , our customers , they do different things . They sit cross-legged more .
We see that they squat . They kneel in prayer .
And we designed our knee to have the greatest range of motion of almost any other knee on the market .
So the second thing we learned , and this leads into my second point , which is that we believe that products need to be designed to be user-centric .
And at D-Rev , we go one step further and we say you need to be user-obsessed .
So it &apos;s not just the end user that you &apos;re thinking about , but everyone who interacts with the product , so , for example , the prosthetist who fits the knee , but also the context in which the knee is being fit .
What is the local market like ?
How do all these components get to the clinic ?
Do they all get there on time ? The supply chain .
Everything that goes into ensuring that this product gets to the end user , and it goes in as part of the system , and it &apos;s used .
So I wanted to show you some of the iterations we did between the first version , the Jaipur Knee , so this is it right here .
( Clicking ) Notice anything about it ?
It clicks .
We &apos;d seen that users had actually modified it .
So do you see that black strip right there ?
That &apos;s a homemade noise dampener .
We also saw that our users had modified it in other ways .
You can see there that that particular amputee , he had wrapped bandages around the knee .
He &apos;d made a cosmesis .
And if you look at the knee , it &apos;s got those pointy edges , right ?
So if you &apos;re wearing it under pants or a skirt or a sari , it &apos;s really obvious that you &apos;re wearing a prosthetic limb , and in societies where there &apos;s social stigma around being disabled , people are particularly acute about this .
So I &apos;m going to show you some of the modifications we did .
We did a lot of iterations , not just around this , but some other things .
But here we have the version three , the ReMotion Knee , but if you look in here , you can see the noise dampener . It &apos;s quieter .
The other thing we did is that we smoothed the profile .
We made it thinner .
And something that &apos;s not obvious is that we designed it for mass production .
And this goes into my last point .
We really , truly believe that if a product is going to reach users at the scale that it &apos;s needed , it needs to be market-driven , and market-driven means that products are sold .
They &apos;re not donated . They &apos;re not heavily subsidized .
Our product needs to be designed to offer value to the end user .
It also has to be designed to be very affordable .
But a product that is valued by a customer is used by a customer , and use is what creates impact .
And we believe that as designers , it holds us accountable to our customers .
And with centralized manufacturing , you can control the quality control , and you can hit that $ 80 price point with profit margins built in .
And now , those profit margins are critical , because if you want to scale , if you want to reach all the people in the world who possibly need a knee , it needs to be economically sustainable .
So I want to give you a sense of where we are at .
We have fit over 5,000 amputees , and one of the big indicators we &apos;re looking at , of course , is , does it improve lives ?
Well , the standard is , is someone still wearing their knee six months later ?
The industry average is about 65 percent .
Ours is 79 percent , and we &apos;re hoping to get that higher .
Right now , our knees are worn in 12 countries .
This is where we want to get , though , in the next three years .
We &apos;ll double the impact in 2015 , and we &apos;ll double it each of the following years after that .
But then we hit a new challenge , and that &apos;s the number of skilled prosthetists who are able to fit knees .
So I want to end with a story of Pournima .
Pournima was 18 years old when she was in a car accident where she lost her leg , and she traveled 12 hours by train to come to the clinic to be fit with a knee , and while all of the amputees who wear our knees affect us as the designers , she &apos;s particularly meaningful to me as an engineer and as a woman , because she was in school , she had just started school to study engineering .
And she said , &quot; &quot; Well , now that I can walk again , I can go back and complete my studies . &quot; &quot; And to me she represents the next generation of engineers solving problems and ensuring meaningful technologies reach their users .
So thank you .
( Applause )
Can any of you remember what you wanted to be when you were 17 ?
Do you know what I wanted to be ?
I wanted to be a biker chick .
( Laughter ) I wanted to race cars , and I wanted to be a cowgirl , and I wanted to be Mowgli from &quot; &quot; The Jungle Book . &quot; &quot; Because they were all about being free , the wind in your hair — just to be free .
And on my seventeenth birthday , my parents , knowing how much I loved speed , gave me one driving lesson for my seventeenth birthday .
Not that we could have afforded I drive , but to give me the dream of driving .
And on my seventeenth birthday , I accompanied my little sister in complete innocence , as I always had all my life — my visually impaired sister — to go to see an eye specialist .
Because big sisters are always supposed to support their little sisters .
And my little sister wanted to be a pilot — God help her .
So I used to get my eyes tested just for fun .
And on my seventeenth birthday , after my fake eye exam , the eye specialist just noticed it happened to be my birthday .
And he said , &quot; &quot; So what are you going to do to celebrate ? &quot; &quot; And I took that driving lesson , and I said , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m going to learn how to drive . &quot; &quot; And then there was a silence — one of those awful silences when you know something &apos;s wrong .
And he turned to my mother , and he said , &quot; &quot; You haven &apos;t told her yet ? &quot; &quot; On my seventeenth birthday , as Janis Ian would best say , I learned the truth at 17 .
I am , and have been since birth , legally blind .
And you know , how on earth did I get to 17 and not know that ?
Well , if anybody says country music isn &apos;t powerful , let me tell you this : I got there because my father &apos;s passion for Johnny Cash and a song , &quot; &quot; A Boy Named Sue . &quot; &quot; I &apos;m the eldest of three . I was born in 1971 .
And very shortly after my birth , my parents found out I had a condition called ocular albinism .
And what the hell does that mean to you ?
I can &apos;t see this clock and I can &apos;t see the timing , so holy God , woohoo ! ( Laughter ) I might buy some more time .
But more importantly , let me tell you — I &apos;m going to come up really close here . Don &apos;t freak out , Pat .
Hey .
See this hand ?
Beyond this hand is a world of Vaseline .
Every man in this room , even you , Steve , is George Clooney .
( Laughter ) And every woman , you are so beautiful .
And when I want to look beautiful , I step three feet away from the mirror , and I don &apos;t have to see these lines etched in my face from all the squinting I &apos;ve done all my life from all the dark lights .
The really strange part is that , at three and a half , just before I was going to school , my parents made a bizarre , unusual and incredibly brave decision .
No special needs schools .
No labels .
No limitations .
My ability and my potential .
And they decided to tell me that I could see .
So just like Johnny Cash &apos;s Sue , a boy given a girl &apos;s name , I would grow up and learn from experience how to be tough and how to survive , when they were no longer there to protect me , or just take it all away .
But more significantly , they gave me the ability to believe , totally , to believe that I could .
And so when I heard that eye specialist tell me all the things , a big fat &quot; &quot; no , &quot; &quot; everybody imagines I was devastated .
And don &apos;t get me wrong , because when I first heard it — aside from the fact that I thought he was insane — I got that thump in my chest , just that &quot; &quot; huh ? &quot; &quot; But very quickly I recovered . It was like that .
The first thing I thought about was my mom , who was crying over beside me .
And I swear to God , I walked out of his office , &quot; &quot; I will drive . I will drive .
You &apos;re mad . I &apos;ll drive . I know I can drive . &quot; &quot; And with the same dogged determination that my father had bred into me since I was such a child — he taught me how to sail , knowing I could never see where I was going , I could never see the shore , and I couldn &apos;t see the sails , and I couldn &apos;t see the destination .
But he told me to believe and feel the wind in my face .
And that wind in my face made me believe that he was mad and I would drive .
And for the next 11 years , I swore nobody would ever find out that I couldn &apos;t see , because I didn &apos;t want to be a failure , and I didn &apos;t want to be weak .
And I believed I could do it .
So I rammed through life as only a Casey can do .
And I was an archeologist , and then I broke things .
And then I managed a restaurant , and then I slipped on things .
And then I went to business school .
And you know , disabled people are hugely educated .
And then I went in and I got a global consulting job with Accenture .
And they didn &apos;t even know .
And it &apos;s extraordinary how far belief can take you .
In 1999 , two and a half years into that job , something happened .
Wonderfully , my eyes decided , enough .
And temporarily , very unexpectedly , they dropped .
And I &apos;m in one of the most competitive environments in the world , where you work hard , play hard , you gotta be the best , you gotta be the best .
And two years in , I really could see very little .
And I found myself in front of an HR manager in 1999 , saying something I never imagined that I would say .
I was 28 years old .
I had built a persona all around what I could and couldn &apos;t do .
And I simply said , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m sorry .
I can &apos;t see , and I need help . &quot; &quot; Asking for help can be incredibly difficult .
And you all know what it is . You don &apos;t need to have a disability to know that .
We all know how hard it is to admit weakness and failure .
And it &apos;s frightening , isn &apos;t it ?
But all that belief had fueled me so long .
And can I tell you , operating in the sighted world when you can &apos;t see , it &apos;s kind of difficult — it really is .
Can I tell you , airports are a disaster .
Oh , for the love of God .
And please , any designers out there ?
OK , designers , please put up your hands , even though I can &apos;t even see you .
I always end up in the gents &apos; toilets .
And there &apos;s nothing wrong with my sense of smell .
But can I just tell you , the little sign for a gents &apos; toilet or a ladies &apos; toilet is determined by a triangle .
Have you ever tried to see that if you have Vaseline in front of your eyes ?
It &apos;s such a small thing , right ?
And you know how exhausting it can be to try to be perfect when you &apos;re not , or to be somebody that you aren &apos;t ?
And so after admitting I couldn &apos;t see to HR , they sent me off to an eye specialist .
And I had no idea that this man was going to change my life .
But before I got to him , I was so lost .
I had no idea who I was anymore .
And that eye specialist , he didn &apos;t bother testing my eyes .
God no , it was therapy .
And he asked me several questions , of which many were , &quot; &quot; Why ?
Why are you fighting so hard not to be yourself ?
And do you love what you do , Caroline ? &quot; &quot; And you know , when you go to a global consulting firm , they put a chip in your head , and you &apos;re like , &quot; &quot; I love Accenture . I love Accenture . I love my job . I love Accenture .
I love Accenture . I love Accenture . I love my job . I love Accenture . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) To leave would be failure .
And he said , &quot; &quot; Do you love it ? &quot; &quot; I couldn &apos;t even speak I was so choked up .
I just was so — how do I tell him ?
And then he said to me , &quot; &quot; What did you want to be when you were little ? &quot; &quot; Now listen , I wasn &apos;t going to say to him , &quot; &quot; Well , I wanted to race cars and motorbikes . &quot; &quot; Hardly appropriate at this moment in time .
He thought I was mad enough anyway .
And as I left his office , he called me back and he said , &quot; &quot; I think it &apos;s time . I think it &apos;s time
to stop fighting and do something different . &quot; &quot; And that door closed .
And that silence just outside a doctor &apos;s office , that many of us know .
And my chest ached .
And I had no idea where I was going . I had no idea .
But I did know the game was up .
And I went home , and , because the pain in my chest ached so much , I thought , &quot; &quot; I &apos;ll go out for a run . &quot; &quot; Really not a very sensible thing to do .
And I went on a run that I know so well .
I know this run so well , by the back of my hand .
I always run it perfectly fine .
I count the steps and the lampposts and all those things that visually impaired people have a tendency to have a lot of meetings with .
And there was a rock that I always missed .
And I &apos;d never fallen on it , never .
And there I was crying away , and smash , bash on my rock .
Broken , fallen over on this rock in the middle of March in 2000 , typical Irish weather on a Wednesday — gray , snot , tears everywhere , ridiculously self-pitying .
And I was floored , and I was broken , and I was angry .
And I didn &apos;t know what to do .
And I sat there for quite some time going , &quot; &quot; How am I going to get off this rock and go home ?
Because who am I going to be ?
What am I going to be ? &quot; &quot; And I thought about my dad , and I thought , &quot; &quot; Good God , I &apos;m so not Sue now . &quot; &quot; And I kept thinking over and over in my mind , what had happened ? Where did it go wrong ? Why didn &apos;t I understand ?
And you know , the extraordinary part of it is I just simply had no answers .
I had lost my belief .
Look where my belief had brought me to .
And now I had lost it . And now I really couldn &apos;t see .
I was crumpled .
And then I remember thinking about that eye specialist asking me , &quot; &quot; What do you want to be ? What do you want to be ?
What did you want to be when you were little ? Do you love what you do ?
Do something different . What do you want to be ?
Do something different . What do you want to be ? &quot; &quot; And really slowly , slowly , slowly , it happened .
And it did happen this way .
And then the minute it came , it blew up in my head and bashed in my heart — something different .
&quot; &quot; Well , how about Mowgli from &apos; The Jungle Book &apos; ?
You don &apos;t get more different than that . &quot; &quot; And the moment , and I mean the moment , the moment that hit me , I swear to God , it was like woo hoo ! You know — something to believe in .
And nobody can tell me no .
Yes , you can say I can &apos;t be an archeologist .
But you can &apos;t tell me , no , I can &apos;t be Mowgli , because guess what ?
Nobody &apos;s ever done it before , so I &apos;m going to go do it .
And it doesn &apos;t matter whether I &apos;m a boy or a girl , I &apos;m just going to scoot .
And so I got off that rock , and , oh my God , did I run home .
And I sprinted home , and I didn &apos;t fall , and I didn &apos;t crash .
And I ran up the stairs , and there was one of my favorite books of all time , &quot; &quot; Travels on My Elephant &quot; &quot; by Mark Shand — I don &apos;t know if any of you know it .
And I grabbed this book off , and I &apos;m sitting on the couch going , &quot; &quot; I know what I &apos;m going to do .
I know how to be Mowgli .
I &apos;m going to go across India on the back of an elephant .
I &apos;m going to be an elephant handler . &quot; &quot; And I had no idea how I was going to be an elephant handler .
From global management consultant to elephant handler .
I had no idea how . I had no idea how you hire an elephant , get an elephant .
I didn &apos;t speak Hindi . I &apos;d never been to India . Hadn &apos;t a clue .
But I knew I would .
Because , when you make a decision at the right time and the right place , God , that universe makes it happen for you .
Nine months later , after that day on snot rock , I had the only blind date in my life with a seven and a half foot elephant called Kanchi .
And together we would trek a thousand kilometers across India .
( Applause ) The most powerful thing of all , it &apos;s not that I didn &apos;t achieve before then . Oh my God , I did .
But you know , I was believing in the wrong thing .
Because I wasn &apos;t believing in me , really me , all the bits of me — all the bits of all of us .
Do you know how much of us all pretend to be somebody we &apos;re not ?
And you know what , when you really believe in yourself and everything about you , it &apos;s extraordinary what happens .
And you know what , that trip , that thousand kilometers , it raised enough money for 6,000 cataract eye operations .
Six thousand people got to see because of that .
When I came home off that elephant , do you know what the most amazing part was ?
I chucked in my job at Accenture .
I left , and I became a social entrepreneur , and I set up an organization with Mark Shand called Elephant Family , which deals with Asian elephant conservation .
And I set up Kanchi , because my organization was always going to be named after my elephant , because disability is like the elephant in the room .
And I wanted to make you see it in a positive way — no charity , no pity .
But I wanted to work only and truly with business and media leadership to totally reframe disability in a way that was exciting and possible .
It was extraordinary .
That &apos;s what I wanted to do .
And I never thought about noes anymore , or not seeing , or any of that kind of nothing .
It just seemed that it was possible .
And you know , the oddest part is , when I was on my way traveling here to TED , I &apos;ll be honest , I was petrified .
And I speak , but this is an amazing audience , and what am I doing here ?
But as I was traveling here , you &apos;ll be very happy to know , I did use my white symbol stick cane , because it &apos;s really good to skip queues in the airport .
And I got my way here being happily proud that I couldn &apos;t see .
And the one thing is that a really good friend of mine , he texted me on the way over , knowing I was scared .
Even though I present confident , I was scared .
He said , &quot; &quot; Be you . &quot; &quot; And so here I am .
This is me , all of me .
( Applause ) And I have learned , you know what , cars and motorbikes and elephants , that &apos;s not freedom .
Being absolutely true to yourself is freedom .
And I never needed eyes to see — never .
I simply needed vision and belief .
And if you truly believe — and I mean believe from the bottom of your heart — you can make change happen .
And we need to make it happen , because every single one of us — woman , man , gay , straight , disabled , perfect , normal , whatever — everyone of us must be the very best of ourselves .
I no longer want anybody to be invisible .
We all have to be included .
And stop with the labels , the limiting .
Losing of labels , because we are not jam jars .
We are extraordinary , different , wonderful people .
Thank you .
( Applause )
A hundred years ago this month , a 36-year-old Albert Einstein stood up in front of the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin to present a radical new theory of space , time and gravity : the general theory of relativity .
General relativity is unquestionably Einstein &apos;s masterpiece , a theory which reveals the workings of the universe at the grandest scales , capturing in one beautiful line of algebra everything from why apples fall from trees to the beginning of time and space .
1915 must have been an exciting year to be a physicist .
Two new ideas were turning the subject on its head .
One was Einstein &apos;s theory of relativity , the other was arguably even more revolutionary : quantum mechanics , a mind-meltingly strange yet stunningly successful new way of understanding the microworld , the world of atoms and particles .
Over the last century , these two ideas have utterly transformed our understanding of the universe .
It &apos;s thanks to relativity and quantum mechanics that we &apos;ve learned what the universe is made from , how it began and how it continues to evolve .
A hundred years on , we now find ourselves at another turning point in physics , but what &apos;s at stake now is rather different .
The next few years may tell us whether we &apos;ll be able to continue to increase our understanding of nature , or whether maybe for the first time in the history of science , we could be facing questions that we cannot answer , not because we don &apos;t have the brains or technology , but because the laws of physics themselves forbid it .
This is the essential problem : the universe is far , far too interesting .
Relativity and quantum mechanics appear to suggest that the universe should be a boring place .
It should be dark , lethal and lifeless .
But when we look around us , we see we live in a universe full of interesting stuff , full of stars , planets , trees , squirrels .
The question is , ultimately , why does all this interesting stuff exist ?
Why is there something rather than nothing ?
This contradiction is the most pressing problem in fundamental physics , and in the next few years , we may find out whether we &apos;ll ever be able to solve it .
At the heart of this problem are two numbers , two extremely dangerous numbers .
These are properties of the universe that we can measure , and they &apos;re extremely dangerous because if they were different , even by a tiny bit , then the universe as we know it would not exist .
The first of these numbers is associated with the discovery that was made a few kilometers from this hall , at CERN , home of this machine , the largest scientific device ever built by the human race , the Large Hadron Collider .
On July 4 , 2012 , physicists at CERN announced to the world that they &apos;d spotted a new fundamental particle being created at the violent collisions at the LHC : the Higgs boson .
Now , if you followed the news at the time , you &apos;ll have seen a lot of physicists getting very excited indeed , and you &apos;d be forgiven for thinking we get that way every time we discover a new particle .
We all got so excited because finding the Higgs proves the existence of a cosmic energy field .
Now , you may have trouble imagining an energy field , but we &apos;ve all experienced one .
If you &apos;ve ever held a magnet close to a piece of metal and felt a force pulling across that gap , then you &apos;ve felt the effect of a field .
And the Higgs field is a little bit like a magnetic field , except it has a constant value everywhere .
It &apos;s all around us right now .
We can &apos;t see it or touch it , but if it wasn &apos;t there , we would not exist .
The Higgs field gives mass to the fundamental particles that we &apos;re made from .
If it wasn &apos;t there , those particles would have no mass , and no atoms could form and there would be no us .
But there is something deeply mysterious about the Higgs field .
Relativity and quantum mechanics tell us that it has two natural settings , a bit like a light switch .
It should either be off , so that it has a zero value everywhere in space , or it should be on so it has an absolutely enormous value .
In both of these scenarios , atoms could not exist , and therefore all the other interesting stuff that we see around us in the universe would not exist .
In reality , the Higgs field is just slightly on , not zero but 10,000 trillion times weaker than its fully on value , a bit like a light switch that &apos;s got stuck just before the off position .
And this value is crucial .
So this is the first of our dangerous numbers , the strength of the Higgs field .
Theorists have spent decades trying to understand why it has this very peculiarly fine-tuned number , and they &apos;ve come up with a number of possible explanations .
They have sexy-sounding names like &quot; &quot; supersymmetry &quot; &quot; or &quot; &quot; large extra dimensions . &quot; &quot; I &apos;m not going to go into the details of these ideas now , but the key point is this : if any of them explained this weirdly fine-tuned value of the Higgs field , then we should see new particles being created at the LHC along with the Higgs boson .
So far , though , we &apos;ve not seen any sign of them .
But there &apos;s actually an even worse example of this kind of fine-tuning of a dangerous number , and this time it comes from the other end of the scale , from studying the universe at vast distances .
One of the most important consequences of Einstein &apos;s general theory of relativity was the discovery that the universe began as a rapid expansion of space and time 13.8 billion years ago , the Big Bang .
Now , according to early versions of the Big Bang theory , the universe has been expanding ever since with gravity gradually putting the brakes on that expansion .
But in 1998 , astronomers made the stunning discovery that the expansion of the universe is actually speeding up .
The universe is getting bigger and bigger faster and faster driven by a mysterious repulsive force called dark energy .
Now , whenever you hear the word &quot; &quot; dark &quot; &quot; in physics , you should get very suspicious because it probably means we don &apos;t know what we &apos;re talking about .
( Laughter ) We don &apos;t know what dark energy is , but the best idea is that it &apos;s the energy of empty space itself , the energy of the vacuum .
Now , if you use good old quantum mechanics to work out how strong dark energy should be , you get an absolutely astonishing result .
You find that dark energy should be 10 to the power of 120 times stronger than the value we observe from astronomy .
That &apos;s one with 120 zeroes after it .
This is a number so mind-bogglingly huge that it &apos;s impossible to get your head around .
We often use the word &quot; &quot; astronomical &quot; &quot; when we &apos;re talking about big numbers .
It &apos;s a thousand trillion trillion trillion times bigger than the number of atoms in the entire universe .
So that &apos;s a pretty bad prediction .
In fact , it &apos;s been called the worst prediction in physics , and this is more than just a theoretical curiosity .
If dark energy were anywhere near this strong , then the universe would have been torn apart , stars and galaxies could not form , and we would not be here .
So this is the second of those dangerous numbers , the strength of dark energy , and explaining it requires an even more fantastic level of fine-tuning than we saw for the Higgs field .
But unlike the Higgs field , this number has no known explanation .
The hope was that a complete combination of Einstein &apos;s general theory of relativity , which is the theory of the universe at grand scales , with quantum mechanics , the theory of the universe at small scales , might provide a solution .
Einstein himself spent most of his later years on a futile search for a unified theory of physics , and physicists have kept at it ever since .
One of the most promising candidates for a unified theory is string theory , and the essential idea is , if you could zoom in on the fundamental particles that make up our world , you &apos;d see actually that they &apos;re not particles at all , but tiny vibrating strings of energy , with each frequency of vibration corresponding to a different particle , a bit like musical notes on a guitar string .
So it &apos;s a rather elegant , almost poetic way of looking at the world , but it has one catastrophic problem .
It turns out that string theory isn &apos;t one theory at all , but a whole collection of theories .
It &apos;s been estimated , in fact , that there are 10 to the 500 different versions of string theory .
Each one would describe a different universe with different laws of physics .
Now , critics say this makes string theory unscientific .
What if all of these 10 to the 500 different possible universes actually exist out there somewhere in some grand multiverse ?
Suddenly we can understand the weirdly fine-tuned values of these two dangerous numbers .
In most of the multiverse , dark energy is so strong that the universe gets torn apart , or the Higgs field is so weak that no atoms can form .
We live in one of the places in the multiverse where the two numbers are just right .
We live in a Goldilocks universe .
Now , this idea is extremely controversial , and it &apos;s easy to see why .
If we follow this line of thinking , then we will never be able to answer the question , &quot; Why is there something rather than nothing ? &quot;
In most of the multiverse , there is nothing , and we live in one of the few places where the laws of physics allow there to be something .
Even worse , we can &apos;t test the idea of the multiverse .
We can &apos;t access these other universes , so there &apos;s no way of knowing whether they &apos;re there or not .
So we &apos;re in an extremely frustrating position .
That doesn &apos;t mean the multiverse doesn &apos;t exist .
There are other planets , other stars , other galaxies , so why not other universes ?
The problem is , it &apos;s unlikely we &apos;ll ever know for sure .
Now , the idea of the multiverse has been around for a while , but in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to get the first solid hints that this line of reasoning may get born out .
Despite high hopes for the first run of the LHC , what we were looking for there — we were looking for new theories of physics : supersymmetry or large extra dimensions that could explain this weirdly fine-tuned value of the Higgs field .
But despite high hopes , the LHC revealed a barren subatomic wilderness populated only by a lonely Higgs boson .
My experiment published paper after paper where we glumly had to conclude that we saw no signs of new physics .
The stakes now could not be higher .
This summer , the LHC began its second phase of operation with an energy almost double what we achieved in the first run .
What particle physicists are all desperately hoping for are signs of new particles , micro black holes , or maybe something totally unexpected emerging from the violent collisions at the Large Hadron Collider .
If so , then we can continue this long journey that began 100 years ago with Albert Einstein towards an ever deeper understanding of the laws of nature .
But if , in two or three years &apos; time , when the LHC switches off again for a second long shutdown , we &apos;ve found nothing but the Higgs boson , then we may be entering a new era in physics : an era where there are weird features of the universe that we cannot explain ; an era where we have hints that we live in a multiverse that lies frustratingly forever beyond our reach ; an era where we will never be able to answer the question , &quot; Why is there something rather than nothing ? &quot;
Thank you .
( Applause ) Bruno Giussani : Harry , even if you just said the science may not have some answers , I would like to ask you a couple of questions , and the first is : building something like the LHC is a generational project .
So I think the first conversations about the LHC were in 1976 , and you start planning the machine without the technology that you know you &apos;re going to need to be able to build it .
BG : China just announced two or three weeks ago that they intend to build a supercollider twice the size of the LHC .
HC : Size isn &apos;t everything , Bruno . BG : I &apos;m sure . I &apos;m sure .
( Laughter ) It sounds funny for a particle physicist to say that .
So building a machine like the LHC requires countries from all over the world to pool their resources .
So it &apos;s only a good thing .
What they &apos;re really planning to do is to build a machine that will study the Higgs boson in detail and could give us some clues as to whether these new ideas , like supersymmetry , are really out there , so it &apos;s great news for physics , I think .
A few years ago , I got one of those spam emails .
( Laughter ) I know . ( Laughter )
It went like this : it said , &quot; &quot; Hello James Veitch , I have an interesting business proposal I want to share with you , Solomon . &quot; &quot; Now , my hand was kind of hovering on the delete button , right ?
I was looking at my phone . I thought , I could just delete this .
Or I could do what I think we &apos;ve all always wanted to do .
( Laughter ) And I said , &quot; &quot; Solomon , Your email intrigues me . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) And the game was afoot .
He said , &quot; &quot; Dear James Veitch , We shall be shipping Gold to you . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) &quot; You will earn 10 % of any gold you distributes . &quot; ( Laughter )
So I knew I was dealing with a professional . ( Laughter )
I said , &quot; &quot; How much is it worth ? &quot; &quot; He said , &quot; &quot; We will start with smaller quantity , &quot; &quot; — I was like , aww — and then he said , &quot; &quot; of 25 kgs . ( Laughter )
The worth should be about $ 2.5 million . &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; Solomon , if we &apos;re going to do it , let &apos;s go big .
( Applause ) I can handle it . How much gold do you have ? &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) He said , &quot; &quot; It is not a matter of how much gold I have , what matters is your capability of handling .
There &apos;s no point doing this at all unless you &apos;re shipping at least a metric ton . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) He said , &quot; &quot; What do you do for a living ? &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) I said , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m a hedge fund executive bank manager . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) This isn &apos;t the first time I &apos;ve shipped bullion , my friend , no no no .
Then I started to panic .
I was like , &quot; &quot; Where are you based ? &quot; &quot; I don &apos;t know about you , but I think if we &apos;re going via the postal service , it ought to be signed for .
That &apos;s a lot of gold . &quot; &quot; He said , &quot; &quot; It will not be easy to convince my company to do larger quantity shipment . &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; Solomon , I &apos;m completely with you on this one .
I &apos;m putting together a visual for you to take into the board meeting .
Hold tight . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) This is what I sent Solomon . ( Laughter )
( Applause ) I don &apos;t know if we have any statisticians in the house , but there &apos;s definitely something going on . ( Laughter )
I said , &quot; &quot; Solomon , attached to this email you &apos;ll find a helpful chart .
I &apos;ve had one of my assistants run the numbers .
( Laughter ) We &apos;re ready for shipping as much gold as possible . &quot; &quot; There &apos;s always a moment where they try to tug your heartstrings , and this was it for Solomon .
He said , &quot; &quot; I will be so much happy if the deal goes well , because I &apos;m going to get a very good commission as well . &quot; &quot; And I said , &quot; &quot; That &apos;s amazing , What are you going to spend your cut on ? &quot; &quot; And he said , &quot; &quot; On RealEstate , what about you ? &quot; &quot; I thought about it for a long time .
And I said , &quot; &quot; One word ; Hummus . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) &quot; &quot; It &apos;s going places . ( Laughter )
I was in Sainsbury &apos;s the other day and there were like 30 different varieties .
Also you can cut up carrots , and you can dip them .
Have you ever done that , Solomon ? &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) He said , &quot; &quot; I have to go bed now . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) &quot; &quot; Till morrow .
Have sweet dream . &quot; &quot; I didn &apos;t know what to say !
I said , &quot; &quot; Bonsoir my golden nugget , bonsoir . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Guys , you have to understand , this had been going for , like , weeks , albeit hitherto the greatest weeks of my life , but I had to knock it on the head .
When we email each other , we need to use a code . &quot; &quot; And he agreed .
( Laughter ) I said , &quot; &quot; Solomon , I spent all night coming up with this code we need to use in all further correspondence : Lawyer : Gummy Bear .
Bank : Cream Egg .
Legal : Fizzy Cola Bottle . Claim : Peanut M &amp; Ms.
Western Union : A Giant Gummy Lizard . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) I knew these were all words they use , right ?
I said , &quot; &quot; Please call me Kitkat in all further correspondence . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) I didn &apos;t hear back . I thought , I &apos;ve gone too far .
I said , &quot; &quot; Solomon , Is the deal still on ?
KitKat . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Because you have to be consistent .
Then I did get an email back from him .
He said , &quot; &quot; The Business is on and I am trying to blah blah blah ... &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; Dude , you have to use the code ! &quot; &quot; What followed is the greatest email I &apos;ve ever received .
( Laughter ) I &apos;m not joking , this is what turned up in my inbox .
This was a good day .
&quot; &quot; The business is on .
I am trying to raise the balance for the Gummy Bear — ( Laughter ) so he can submit all the needed Fizzy Cola Bottle Jelly Beans to the Creme Egg , for the Peanut M &amp; Ms process to start . ( Laughter )
Send 1,500 pounds via a Giant Gummy Lizard . &quot; &quot; ( Applause ) And that was so much fun , right , that it got me thinking : like , what would happen if I just spent as much time as could replying to as many scam emails as I could ?
And that &apos;s what I &apos;ve been doing for three years on your behalf .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Crazy stuff happens when you start replying to scam emails .
All I &apos;m doing is wasting their time .
And I think any time they &apos;re spending with me is time they &apos;re not spending scamming vulnerable adults out of their savings , right ?
And if you &apos;re going to do this — and I highly recommend you do — get yourself a pseudonymous email address .
Don &apos;t use your own email address .
That &apos;s what I was doing at the start and it was a nightmare .
I &apos;d wake up in the morning and have a thousand emails about penis enlargements , only one of which was a legitimate response — ( Laughter ) to a medical question I had .
But I &apos;ll tell you what , though , guys , I &apos;ll tell you what : any day is a good day , any day is a good day if you receive an email that begins like this : ( Laughter ) &quot; &quot; I AM WINNIE MANDELA , THE SECOND WIFE OF NELSON MANDELA THE FORMER SOUTH AFRICAN PRESIDENT . &quot; &quot; I was like , oh ! — that Winnie Mandela . ( Laughter )
I know so many .
&quot; &quot; I NEED TO TRANSFER 45 MILLION DOLLARS OUT OF THE COUNTRY BECAUSE OF MY HUSBAND NELSON MANDELA &apos;S HEALTH CONDITION . &quot; &quot; Let that sink in .
She sent me this , which is hysterical .
( Laughter ) And this .
And this looks fairly legitimate , this is a letter of authorization .
( Laughter ) I said , &quot; &quot; Winnie , I &apos;m really sorry to hear of this .
Given that Nelson died three months ago , I &apos;d describe his health condition as fairly serious . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) That &apos;s the worst health condition you can have , not being alive .
She said , &quot; &quot; KINDLY COMPLY WITH MY BANKERS INSTRUCTIONS .
ONE LOVE . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) I said , &quot; &quot; Of course . NO WOMAN , NO CRY . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) She said , &quot; &quot; MY BANKER WILL NEED TRANSFER OF 3000 DOLLARS . ONE LOVE . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) I said , &quot; &quot; no problemo .
I SHOT THE SHERIFF . &quot; &quot; &#91; ( BUT I DID NOT SHOOT THE DEPUTY ) &#93; ( Laughter ) Thank you .
( Applause )
Growth is not dead .
( Applause ) Let &apos;s start the story 120 years ago , when American factories began to electrify their operations , igniting the Second Industrial Revolution .
The amazing thing is that productivity did not increase in those factories for 30 years . Thirty years .
That &apos;s long enough for a generation of managers to retire .
You see , the first wave of managers simply replaced their steam engines with electric motors , but they didn &apos;t redesign the factories to take advantage of electricity &apos;s flexibility .
It fell to the next generation to invent new work processes , and then productivity soared , often doubling or even tripling in those factories .
Electricity is an example of a general purpose technology , like the steam engine before it .
General purpose technologies drive most economic growth , because they unleash cascades of complementary innovations , like lightbulbs and , yes , factory redesign .
Is there a general purpose technology of our era ?
Sure . It &apos;s the computer .
But technology alone is not enough .
Technology is not destiny .
We shape our destiny , and just as the earlier generations of managers needed to redesign their factories , we &apos;re going to need to reinvent our organizations and even our whole economic system .
We &apos;re not doing as well at that job as we should be .
As we &apos;ll see in a moment , productivity is actually doing all right , but it has become decoupled from jobs , and the income of the typical worker is stagnating .
These troubles are sometimes misdiagnosed as the end of innovation , but they are actually the growing pains of what Andrew McAfee and I call the new machine age .
Let &apos;s look at some data .
So here &apos;s GDP per person in America .
There &apos;s some bumps along the way , but the big story is you could practically fit a ruler to it .
This is a log scale , so what looks like steady growth is actually an acceleration in real terms .
And here &apos;s productivity .
You can see a little bit of a slowdown there in the mid- &apos; 70s , but it matches up pretty well with the Second Industrial Revolution , when factories were learning how to electrify their operations .
After a lag , productivity accelerated again .
So maybe &quot; &quot; history doesn &apos;t repeat itself , but sometimes it rhymes . &quot; &quot; Today , productivity is at an all-time high , and despite the Great Recession , it grew faster in the 2000s than it did in the 1990s , the roaring 1990s , and that was faster than the &apos; 70s or &apos; 80s .
It &apos;s growing faster than it did during the Second Industrial Revolution .
And that &apos;s just the United States .
The global news is even better .
Worldwide incomes have grown at a faster rate in the past decade than ever in history .
If anything , all these numbers actually understate our progress , because the new machine age is more about knowledge creation than just physical production .
It &apos;s mind not matter , brain not brawn , ideas not things .
That creates a problem for standard metrics , because we &apos;re getting more and more stuff for free , like Wikipedia , Google , Skype , and if they post it on the web , even this TED Talk .
Now getting stuff for free is a good thing , right ?
Sure , of course it is .
But that &apos;s not how economists measure GDP .
Zero price means zero weight in the GDP statistics .
According to the numbers , the music industry is half the size that it was 10 years ago , but I &apos;m listening to more and better music than ever .
You know , I bet you are too .
In total , my research estimates that the GDP numbers miss over 300 billion dollars per year in free goods and services on the Internet .
Now let &apos;s look to the future .
There are some super smart people who are arguing that we &apos;ve reached the end of growth , but to understand the future of growth , we need to make predictions about the underlying drivers of growth .
I &apos;m optimistic , because the new machine age is digital , exponential and combinatorial .
When goods are digital , they can be replicated with perfect quality at nearly zero cost , and they can be delivered almost instantaneously .
Welcome to the economics of abundance .
But there &apos;s a subtler benefit to the digitization of the world .
Measurement is the lifeblood of science and progress .
In the age of big data , we can measure the world in ways we never could before .
Secondly , the new machine age is exponential .
Computers get better faster than anything else ever .
A child &apos;s Playstation today is more powerful than a military supercomputer from 1996 .
But our brains are wired for a linear world .
As a result , exponential trends take us by surprise .
I used to teach my students that there are some things , you know , computers just aren &apos;t good at , like driving a car through traffic .
( Laughter ) That &apos;s right , here &apos;s Andy and me grinning like madmen because we just rode down Route 101 in , yes , a driverless car .
Thirdly , the new machine age is combinatorial .
The stagnationist view is that ideas get used up , like low-hanging fruit , but the reality is that each innovation creates building blocks for even more innovations .
Here &apos;s an example . In just a matter of a few weeks , an undergraduate student of mine built an app that ultimately reached 1.3 million users .
He was able to do that so easily because he built it on top of Facebook , and Facebook was built on top of the web , and that was built on top of the Internet , and so on and so forth .
Now individually , digital , exponential and combinatorial would each be game-changers .
Put them together , and we &apos;re seeing a wave of astonishing breakthroughs , like robots that do factory work or run as fast as a cheetah or leap tall buildings in a single bound .
You know , robots are even revolutionizing cat transportation .
( Laughter ) But perhaps the most important invention , the most important invention is machine learning .
Consider one project : IBM &apos;s Watson .
These little dots here , those are all the champions on the quiz show &quot; &quot; Jeopardy . &quot; &quot; At first , Watson wasn &apos;t very good , but it improved at a rate faster than any human could , and shortly after Dave Ferrucci showed this chart to my class at MIT , Watson beat the world &quot; &quot; Jeopardy &quot; &quot; champion .
At age seven , Watson is still kind of in its childhood .
Recently , its teachers let it surf the Internet unsupervised .
The next day , it started answering questions with profanities .
Damn . ( Laughter ) But you know , Watson is growing up fast .
It &apos;s being tested for jobs in call centers , and it &apos;s getting them .
It &apos;s applying for legal , banking and medical jobs , and getting some of them .
Isn &apos;t it ironic that at the very moment we are building intelligent machines , perhaps the most important invention in human history , some people are arguing that innovation is stagnating ?
Like the first two industrial revolutions , the full implications of the new machine age are going to take at least a century to fully play out , but they are staggering .
So does that mean we have nothing to worry about ?
No . Technology is not destiny .
Productivity is at an all time high , but fewer people now have jobs .
We have created more wealth in the past decade than ever , but for a majority of Americans , their income has fallen .
This is the great decoupling of productivity from employment , of wealth from work .
You know , it &apos;s not surprising that millions of people have become disillusioned by the great decoupling , but like too many others , they misunderstand its basic causes .
Technology is racing ahead , but it &apos;s leaving more and more people behind .
Today , we can take a routine job , codify it in a set of machine-readable instructions , and then replicate it a million times .
You know , I recently overheard a conversation that epitomizes these new economics .
This guy says , &quot; &quot; Nah , I don &apos;t use H &amp; R Block anymore .
TurboTax does everything that my tax preparer did , but it &apos;s faster , cheaper and more accurate . &quot; &quot; How can a skilled worker compete with a $ 39 piece of software ?
She can &apos;t .
Today , millions of Americans do have faster , cheaper , more accurate tax preparation , and the founders of Intuit have done very well for themselves .
But 17 percent of tax preparers no longer have jobs .
That is a microcosm of what &apos;s happening , not just in software and services , but in media and music , in finance and manufacturing , in retailing and trade — in short , in every industry .
People are racing against the machine , and many of them are losing that race .
What can we do to create shared prosperity ?
The answer is not to try to slow down technology .
Instead of racing against the machine , we need to learn to race with the machine .
That is our grand challenge .
The new machine age can be dated to a day 15 years ago when Garry Kasparov , the world chess champion , played Deep Blue , a supercomputer .
The machine won that day , and today , a chess program running on a cell phone can beat a human grandmaster .
It got so bad that , when he was asked what strategy he would use against a computer , Jan Donner , the Dutch grandmaster , replied , &quot; I &apos;d bring a hammer . &quot;
( Laughter ) But today a computer is no longer the world chess champion .
Neither is a human , because Kasparov organized a freestyle tournament where teams of humans and computers could work together , and the winning team had no grandmaster , and it had no supercomputer .
What they had was better teamwork , and they showed that a team of humans and computers , working together , could beat any computer or any human working alone .
Racing with the machine beats racing against the machine .
Technology is not destiny .
We shape our destiny .
Thank you .
( Applause )
I was offered a position as associate professor of medicine and chief of scientific visualization at Yale University in the department of medicine .
And my job was to write many of the algorithms and code for NASA to do virtual surgery in preparation for the astronauts going into deep-space flight , so they could be kept in robotic pods .
One of the fascinating things about what we were working on is that we were seeing , using new scanning technologies , things that had never been seen before .
Not only in disease management , but also things that allowed us to see things about the body that just made you marvel .
I remember one of the first times we were looking at collagen .
And your entire body , everything — your hair , skin , bone , nails — everything is made of collagen .
And it &apos;s a kind of rope-like structure that twirls and swirls like this .
So perfectly organized a structure , it was hard not to attribute divinity to it .
One of the opportunities I had was one person was working on a really interesting micromagnetic resonance imaging machine with the NIH .
And what we were going to do was scan a new project on the development of the fetus from conception to birth using these new technologies .
So I wrote the algorithms and code , and he built the hardware — Paul Lauterbur — then went onto win the Nobel Prize for inventing the MRI .
And I &apos;m going to show you a sample of the piece , &quot; From Conception to Birth . &quot;
( Music ) &#91; From Conception to Birth &#93; &#91; Oocyte &#93; &#91; Sperm &#93; &#91; Egg Inseminated &#93; &#91; 24 Hours : Baby &apos;s first division &#93; &#91; The fertilized ovum divides a few hours after fusion ... &#93; &#91; And divides anew every 12 to 15 hours . &#93; &#91; Early Embryo &#93; &#91; Yolk sack still feeding baby . &#93; &#91; 25 Days : Heart chamber developing . &#93; &#91; 32 Days : Arms &amp; hands are developing &#93; &#91; 36 Days : Beginning of the primitive vertebrae &#93; &#91; These weeks are the period of the most rapid development of the fetus . &#93; &#91; If the fetus continues to grow at this speed for the entire 9 months , it would be 1.5 tons at birth . &#93; &#91; 45 Days &#93; &#91; Embryo &apos;s heart is beating twice as fast as the mother &apos;s . &#93;
&#91; 51 Days &#93; &#91; Developing retina , nose and fingers &#93; &#91; The fetus &apos; continual movement in the womb is necessary for muscular and skeletal growth . &#93; &#91; 12 Weeks : Indifferent penis &#93; &#91; Girl or boy yet to be determined &#93; &#91; 8 Months &#93; &#91; Delivery : The expulsion stage &#93; &#91; The moment of birth &#93; ( Applause ) Alexander Tsiaras : Thank you .
And as we kept on scanning more and more , working on this project , looking at these two simple cells that have this unbelievable machinery that will become the magic of you .
And as we kept on working on this data , looking at small clusters of the body , these little pieces of tissue that were the trophoblasts coming off of the blastocyst , all of a sudden burrowing itself into the side of the uterus , saying , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m here to stay . &quot; &quot; Having conversation and communications with the estrogens , the progesterones , saying , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m here to stay , plant me , &quot; &quot; building this incredible trilinear fetus that becomes , within 44 days , something that you can recognize , and then at nine weeks is really kind of a little human being .
The marvel of this information : How do we actually have this biological mechanism inside our body to actually see this information ?
And like this magnificent origami , cells are developing at one million cells per second at four weeks , as it &apos;s just folding on itself .
Within five weeks , you start to see the early atrium and the early ventricles .
Six weeks , these folds are now beginning with the papilla on the inside of the heart actually being able to pull down each one of those valves in your heart until you get a mature heart — and then basically the development of the entire human body .
The magic of the mechanisms inside each genetic structure saying exactly where that nerve cell should go — the complexity of these , the mathematical models of how these things are indeed done are beyond human comprehension .
Even though I am a mathematician , I look at this with marvel of how do these instruction sets not make these mistakes as they build what is us ?
It &apos;s a mystery , it &apos;s magic , it &apos;s divinity .
Take a look at this little tuft of capillaries .
But basically by the time you &apos;re nine months and you &apos;re given birth , you have almost 60,000 miles of vessels inside your body .
59,999 miles that are basically bringing nutrients and taking waste away .
The complexity of building that within a single system is , again , beyond any comprehension or any existing mathematics today .
And then instructions set , from the brain to every other part of the body — look at the complexity of the folding .
Every six months until they &apos;re six years old , we &apos;re going to be doing about 250 children , watching exactly how the gyri and the sulci of the brains fold to see how this magnificent development actually turns into memories and the marvel that is us .
And it &apos;s not just our own existence , but how does the woman &apos;s body understand to have genetic structure that not only builds her own , but then has the understanding that allows her to become a walking immunological , cardiovascular system that basically is a mobile system that can actually nurture , treat this child with a kind of marvel that is beyond , again , our comprehension — the magic that is existence , that is us ?
I &apos;m five years old , and I am very proud .
My father has just built the best outhouse in our little village in Ukraine .
Inside , it &apos;s a smelly , gaping hole in the ground , but outside , it &apos;s pearly white formica and it literally gleams in the sun .
This makes me feel so proud , so important , that I appoint myself the leader of my little group of friends and I devise missions for us .
So we prowl from house to house looking for flies captured in spider webs and we set them free .
Four years earlier , when I was one , after the Chernobyl accident , the rain came down black , and my sister &apos;s hair fell out in clumps , and I spent nine months in the hospital .
There were no visitors allowed , so my mother bribed a hospital worker .
She acquired a nurse &apos;s uniform , and she snuck in every night to sit by my side .
Five years later , an unexpected silver lining .
Thanks to Chernobyl , we get asylum in the U.S.
I am six years old , and I don &apos;t cry when we leave home and we come to America , because I expect it to be a place filled with rare and wonderful things like bananas and chocolate and Bazooka bubble gum , Bazooka bubble gum with the little cartoon wrappers inside , Bazooka that we &apos;d get once a year in Ukraine and we &apos;d have to chew one piece for an entire week .
So the first day we get to New York , my grandmother and I find a penny in the floor of the homeless shelter that my family &apos;s staying in .
Only , we don &apos;t know that it &apos;s a homeless shelter .
We think that it &apos;s a hotel , a hotel with lots of rats .
So we find this penny kind of fossilized in the floor , and we think that a very wealthy man must have left it there because regular people don &apos;t just lose money .
And I hold this penny in the palm of my hand , and it &apos;s sticky and rusty , but it feels like I &apos;m holding a fortune .
I decide that I &apos;m going to get my very own piece of Bazooka bubble gum .
And in that moment , I feel like a millionaire .
About a year later , I get to feel that way again when we find a bag full of stuffed animals in the trash , and suddenly I have more toys than I &apos;ve ever had in my whole life .
And again , I get that feeling when we get a knock on the door of our apartment in Brooklyn , and my sister and I find a deliveryman with a box of pizza that we didn &apos;t order .
So we take the pizza , our very first pizza , and we devour slice after slice as the deliveryman stands there and stares at us from the doorway .
And he tells us to pay , but we don &apos;t speak English .
My mother comes out , and he asks her for money , but she doesn &apos;t have enough .
She walks 50 blocks to and from work every day just to avoid spending money on bus fare .
Then our neighbor pops her head in , and she turns red with rage when she realizes that those immigrants from downstairs have somehow gotten their hands on her pizza .
Everyone &apos;s upset .
But the pizza is delicious .
It doesn &apos;t hit me until years later just how little we had .
On our 10 year anniversary of being in the U.S. , we decided to celebrate by reserving a room at the hotel that we first stayed in when we got to the U.S.
The man at the front desk laughs , and he says , &quot; You can &apos;t reserve a room here . This is a homeless shelter . &quot;
My husband Brian was also homeless as a kid .
His family lost everything , and at age 11 , he had to live in motels with his dad , motels that would round up all of their food and keep it hostage until they were able to pay the bill .
And one time , when he finally got his box of Frosted Flakes back , it was crawling with roaches .
But he did have one thing .
He had this shoebox that he carried with him everywhere containing nine comic books , two G.I. Joes painted to look like Spider-Man and five Gobots . And this was his treasure .
This was his own assembly of heroes that kept him from drugs and gangs and from giving up on his dreams .
I &apos;m going to tell you about one more formerly homeless member of our family .
Once upon a time , Scarlet was used as bait in dog fights .
She was tied up and thrown into the ring for other dogs to attack so they &apos;d get more aggressive before the fight .
And now , these days , she eats organic food and she sleeps on an orthopedic bed with her name on it , but when we pour water for her in her bowl , she still looks up and she wags her tail in gratitude .
Sometimes Brian and I walk through the park with Scarlett , and she rolls through the grass , and we just look at her and then we look at each other and we feel gratitude .
We forget about all of our new middle-class frustrations and disappointments , and we feel like millionaires .
Thank you .
( Applause )
First , of course you know , a leader needs the guts to stand out and be ridiculed .
Now , notice that the leader embraces him as an equal .
It takes guts to stand out like that .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) And here comes a second follower .
Now it &apos;s not a lone nut , it &apos;s not two nuts — three is a crowd , and a crowd is news .
So a movement must be public .
Now , here come two more people , and immediately after , three more people .
( Laughter ) So , notice that , as more people join in , it &apos;s less risky .
So first , if you are the type , like the shirtless dancing guy that is standing alone , remember the importance of nurturing your first few followers as equals so it &apos;s clearly about the movement , not you .
The biggest lesson , if you noticed — did you catch it ? — is that leadership is over-glorified .
And when you find a lone nut doing something great , have the guts to be the first one to stand up and join in .
And what a perfect place to do that , at TED .
( Applause )
At Free America , we &apos;ve done a listening and learning tour .
We visited not only with prosecutors but with legislators , with inmates in our state and local prisons .
We &apos;ve gone to immigration detention centers .
We &apos;ve met a lot of people .
And we &apos;ve seen that redemption and transformation can happen in our prisons , our jails and our immigration detention centers , giving hope to those who want to create a better life after serving their time .
Imagine if we also considered the front end of this prison pipeline .
What would it look like if we intervened , with rehabilitation as a core value — with love and compassion as core values ?
We would have a society that is safer , healthier and worthy of raising our children in .
I want to introduce you to James Cavitt .
James served 12 years in the San Quentin State Prison and is being released in 18 months .
Now James , like you and me , is more than the worst thing he &apos;s done .
He is a father , a husband , a son , a poet .
He committed a crime ; he &apos;s paying his debt , and working hard to build the skills to make the transition back to a productive life when he enters the civilian population again .
Now James , like millions of people behind bars , is an example of what happens if we believe that our failings don &apos;t define who we are , that we are all worthy of redemption and if we support those impacted by mass incarceration , we can all heal together .
I &apos;d like to introduce you to James right now , and he &apos;s going to share his journey of redemption through spoken word .
James Cavitt : Thanks , John .
TED , welcome to San Quentin .
The talent is abundant behind prison walls .
Future software engineers , entrepreneurs , craftsmen , musicians and artists .
This piece is inspired by all of the hard work that men and women are doing on the inside to create better lives and futures for themselves after they serve their time .
This piece is entitled , &quot; &quot; Where I Live . &quot; &quot; I live in a world where most people are too afraid to go .
Surrounded by tall , concrete walls , steel bars , where razor wire have a way of cutting away at the hopes for a brighter tomorrow .
I live in a world that kill people who kill people in order to teach people that killing people is wrong .
Imagine that .
Better yet , imagine a world where healed people helped hurt people heal and become strong .
Maybe then we would all be singin &apos; &quot; &quot; Redemption Song . &quot; &quot; I live in a world that has been called &quot; &quot; hell on Earth &quot; &quot; by those trapped inside .
But I &apos;ve come to the stark realization that prison — it really is what you make it .
You see , in spite of the harshness of my reality , there is a silver lining .
I knew that my freedom was gonna come , it was just a matter of time .
And so I treated my first steps as if they were my last mile , and I realized that you don &apos;t have to be free in order to experience freedom .
And just because you &apos;re free , doesn &apos;t mean that you have freedom .
Many of us , for years , have been battling our inner demons .
We walk around smiling when inside we &apos;re really screamin &apos; : freedom !
Don &apos;t you get it ?
We &apos;re all serving time ; we &apos;re just in different places .
As for me , I choose to be free from the prisons I &apos;ve created .
The key : forgiveness .
Action &apos;s my witness .
If we want freedom , then we gotta think different .
Because freedom ...
it isn &apos;t a place .
It &apos;s a mind setting .
Thank you .
( Applause ) ( Piano ) John Legend : Old pirates , yes , they rob I.
Sold I to the merchant ships .
Minutes after they took I from the bottomless pit .
My hands were made strong by the hand of the almighty .
We forward in this generation triumphantly .
Won &apos;t you help to sing these songs of freedom ?
&apos;Cause all I ever had — redemption songs .
Redemption songs .
Emancipate yourselves from mental slavery .
None but ourselves can free our minds .
Have no fear for atomic energy &apos; cause none of them can stop the time .
How long shall they kill our prophets while we stand aside and look ?
Some say it &apos;s just a part of it , we &apos;ve got to fulfill the book .
Won &apos;t you help to sing these songs of freedom ?
&apos;Cause all I ever had — redemption songs .
Redemption songs .
( Piano ) Emancipate yourselves from mental slavery .
None but ourselves can free our minds .
Have no fear for atomic energy &apos; cause none of them can stop the time .
How long shall they kill our prophets while we stand aside and look ?
Some say it &apos;s just a part of it , we &apos;ve got to fulfill the book .
Won &apos;t you help to sing these songs of freedom ?
&apos;Cause all I ever had — redemption songs .
Redemption songs .
These songs of freedom .
&apos;Cause all I ever had — redemption songs .
Redemption songs . Redemption songs .
( Piano )
( Applause ) Thank you . Thank you . ( Applause )
Today 40 million Americans are indebted for their passage to the new economy .
Too poor to pay their way through college , they now owe lenders more than one trillion US dollars .
They do find what jobs they can get to pay off a debt that is secured on their person .
In America , even a bankrupt gambler gets a second chance .
But it is nearly impossible for an American to get discharged their student loan debts .
Once upon a time in America , going to college did not mean graduating with debt .
My friend Paul &apos;s father graduated from Colorado State University on the GI Bill .
For his generation , higher education was free or almost free , because it was thought of as a public good .
Not anymore .
When Paul also graduated from Colorado State University , he paid for his English degree by working part-time .
30 years ago , higher education tuition was affordable , reasonable , and what debts you accumulated , you paid off by graduation date .
Not anymore .
Paul &apos;s daughter followed in his footsteps , but with one difference : when she graduated five years ago , it was with a whopping debt .
Students like Kate have to take on a loan because the cost of higher education has become unaffordable for many if not most American families .
But so what ?
Getting into debt to buy an expensive education is not all bad if you could pay it off with the increased income that you earned from it .
Even a college grad earned 10 percent more in 2001 than she did in 2013 .
So ...
tuition costs up , public funding down , family incomes diminished , personal incomes weak .
Is it any wonder that more than a quarter of those who must cannot make their student loan payments ?
The worst of times can be the best of times , because certain truths flash up in ways that you can &apos;t ignore .
I want to speak of three of them today .
1.2 trillion dollars of debts for diplomas make it abundantly obvious that higher education is a consumer product you can buy .
All of us talk about education just as the economists do now , as an investment that you make to improve the human stock by training them for work .
As an investment you make to sort and classify people so that employers can hire them more easily .
The U.S. News &amp; World Report ranks colleges just as the consumer report rates washing machines .
The language is peppered with barbarisms .
Teachers are called &quot; &quot; service providers , &quot; &quot; students are called &quot; &quot; consumers . &quot; &quot; Sociology and Shakespeare and soccer and science , all of these are &quot; &quot; content . &quot; &quot; Student debt is profitable .
Only not on you .
Your debt fattens the profit of the student loan industry .
The two 800-pound gorillas of which — Sallie Mae and Navient — posted last year a combined profit of 1.2 billion dollars .
And just like home mortgages , student loans can be bundled and packaged and sliced and diced , and sold on Wall Street .
And colleges and universities that invest in these securitized loans profit twice .
Once from your tuition , and then again from the interest on debt .
With all that money to be made , are we surprised that some in the higher education business have begun to engage in false advertising , in bait and switch ...
in exploiting the very ignorance that they pretend to educate ?
Third : diplomas are a brand .
Many years ago my teacher wrote , &quot; &quot; When students are treated as consumers , they &apos;re made prisoners of addiction and envy . &quot; &quot; Just as consumers can be sold and resold upgraded versions of an iPhone , so also people can be sold more and more education .
College is the new high school , we already say that .
But why stop there ?
People can be upsold on certifications and recertifications , master &apos;s degrees , doctoral degrees .
Higher education is also marketed as a status object .
Buy a degree , much like you do a Lexus of a Louis Vuitton bag , to distinguish yourself from others .
So you can be the object of envy of others .
Diplomas are a brand .
But these truths are often times hidden by a very noisy sales pitch .
There is not a day that goes by without some policy guy on television telling us , &quot; &quot; A college degree is absolutely essential to get on that up escalator to a middle-class life . &quot; &quot; And the usual evidence offered is the college premium : a college grad who makes on average 56 percent more than a high school grad .
Let &apos;s look at that number more carefully , because on the face of it , it seems to belie the stories we all hear about college grads working as baristas and cashiers .
Of 100 people who enroll in any form of post-secondary education , 45 do not complete it in a timely fashion , for a number of reasons , including financial .
Of the 55 that do graduate , two will remain unemployed , and another 18 are underemployed .
So , college grads earn more than high school grads , but does it pay for the exorbitant tuition and the lost wages while at college ?
Now even economists admit going to college pays off for only those who complete it .
But that &apos;s only because high school wages have been cut to the bone , for decades now .
For decades , workers with a high school degree have been denied a fair share of what they have produced .
And had they received as they should have , then going to college would have been a bad investment for many .
College premium ?
I think it &apos;s a high school discount .
And the future , for them , doesn &apos;t look particularly promising — in fact , it &apos;s downright bleak .
And it is they who are going to suffer the most punishing forms of student debt .
And it is they , curiously and sadly , who are marketed most loudly about this college premium thing .
That &apos;s not just cynical marketing , that &apos;s cruel .
So what do we do ?
What if students and parents treated higher education as a consumer product ?
Everybody else seems to .
When you buy a higher educational product , you should have a warning label that allows consumers to choose , make informed choices .
When you buy a car , it tells you how many miles per gallon to expect .
Who knows what to expect from a degree say , in Canadian Studies .
There is such a thing , by the way .
What if there was an app for that ?
One that linked up the cost of a major to the expected income .
Let &apos;s call it Income-Based Tuition or IBT .
( Laughter ) Discover your reality . ( Laughter )
There are three advantages , three benefits to Income-Based Tuition .
Any user can figure out how much money he or she will make from a given college and major .
Such informed users are unlikely to fall victim to the huckster &apos;s ploy , to the sales pitch .
But also to choose wisely .
Why would anybody pay more for college than let &apos;s say , 15 percent of the additional income they earn ?
There &apos;s a second benefit to Income-Based Tuition .
By tying the cost to the income , college administrators would be forced to manage costs better , to find innovative ways to do so .
For instance , all of you students here pay roughly the same tuition for every major .
That is manifestly unfair , and should change .
An engineering student uses more resources and facilities and labs and faculty than a philosophy student .
But the philosophy student , as a consequence , is subsidizing the engineering student .
Who then , by the way , goes on and earns more money .
Why should two people buy the same product , pay the same , but one person receive half or a third of the service .
In fact , college grads , some majors , pay 25 percent of their income servicing their student debt , while others pay five percent .
That kind if inequity would end when majors are priced more correctly .
Now of course , all this data — and one of you is going to do this , right ?
But be that as it may , the third and biggest benefit of Income-Based Tuition , is it would free Americans from the fear and the fact of financial ruin because they bought a defective product .
Perhaps , in time , young and old Americans may rediscover , as the gentleman said earlier , their curiosity , their love of learning — begin to study what they love , love what they study , follow their passion ...
getting stimulated by their intelligence , follow paths of inquiry that they really want to .
After all , it was Eric and Kevin , two years ago , just exactly these kinds of young men , who prompted me and worked with me , and still do , in the study of indebted students in America .
Thank you for your attention .
( Applause )
Pat Mitchell : Your first time back on the TEDWomen stage .
Sheryl Sandberg : First time back . Nice to see everyone . It &apos;s always so nice to look out and see so many women .
It &apos;s so not my regular experience , as I know anyone else &apos;s .
PM : So when we first started talking about , maybe the subject wouldn &apos;t be social media , which we assumed it would be , but that you had very much on your mind the missing leadership positions , particularly in the sector of technology and social media .
But how did that evolve for you as a thought , and end up being the TED Talk that you gave ?
SS : So I was really scared to get on this stage and talk about women , because I grew up in the business world , as I think so many of us did .
You never talk about being a woman , because someone might notice that you &apos;re a woman , right ?
They might notice . Or worse , if you say &quot; &quot; woman , &quot; &quot; people on the other end of the table think you &apos;re asking for special treatment , or complaining .
Or worse , about to sue them . And so I went through — ( Laughter ) Right ? I went through my entire business career , and never spoke about being a woman , never spoke about it publicly .
But I also had noticed that it wasn &apos;t working .
I came out of college over 20 years ago , and I thought that all of my peers were men and women , all the people above me were all men , but that would change , because your generation had done such an amazing job fighting for equality , equality was now ours for the taking . And it wasn &apos;t .
Because year after year , I was one of fewer and fewer , and now , often the only woman in a room .
And I talked to a bunch of people about , should I give a speech at TEDWomen about women , and they said , oh no , no .
It will end your business career . You cannot be a serious business executive and speak about being a woman . You &apos;ll never be taken seriously again .
But fortunately , there were the few , the proud — like you — who told me I should give the speech , and I asked myself the question Mark Zuckerberg might — the founder of Facebook and my boss — asks all of us , which is , what would I do if I wasn &apos;t afraid ?
And the answer to what would I do if I wasn &apos;t afraid is I would get on the TED stage , and talk about women , and leadership . And I did , and survived . ( Applause ) PM : I would say , not only survived . I &apos;m thinking of that moment , Sheryl , when you and I were standing backstage together , and you turned to me , and you told me a story .
And I said — very last minute — you know , you really should share that story .
SS : Oh , yeah . PM : What was that story ?
SS : Well , it &apos;s an important part of the journey . So I had — TEDWomen — the original one was in D.C. — so I live here , so I had gotten on a plane the day before , and my daughter was three , she was clinging to my leg : &quot; &quot; Mommy , don &apos;t go . &quot; &quot; And Pat &apos;s a friend , and so , not related to the speech I was planning on giving , which was chock full of facts and figures , and nothing personal , I told Pat the story . I said , well , I &apos;m having a hard day .
Yesterday my daughter was clinging to my leg , and &quot; &quot; Don &apos;t go . &quot; &quot; And you looked at me and said , you have to tell that story .
I said , on the TED stage ? Are you kidding ?
I &apos;m going to get on a stage and admit my daughter was clinging to my leg ?
And you said yes , because if you want to talk about getting more women into leadership roles , you have to be honest about how hard it is .
And I did . And I think that &apos;s a really important part of the journey .
The same thing happened when I wrote my book . I started writing the book . I wrote a first chapter , I thought it was fabulous . It was chock-full of data and figures , I had three pages on matrilineal Maasai tribes , and their sociological patterns .
My husband read it and he was like , this is like eating your Wheaties . ( Laughter ) No one — and I apologize to Wheaties if there &apos;s someone — no one , no one will read this book .
And I realized through the process that I had to be more honest and more open , and I had to tell my stories . My stories of still not feeling as self-confident as I should , in many situations . My first and failed marriage . Crying at work .
Felling like I didn &apos;t belong there , feeling guilty to this day .
And part of my journey , starting on this stage , going to &quot; &quot; Lean In , &quot; &quot; going to the foundation , is all about being more open and honest about those challenges , so that other women can be more open and honest , and all of us can work together towards real equality .
PM : I think that one of the most striking parts about the book , and in my opinion , one of the reasons it &apos;s hit such a nerve and is resonating around the world , is that you are personal in the book , and that you do make it clear that , while you &apos;ve observed some things that are very important for other women to know , that you &apos;ve had the same challenges that many others of us have , as you faced the hurdles and the barriers and possibly the people who don &apos;t believe the same .
So talk about that process : deciding you &apos;d go public with the private part , and then you would also put yourself in the position of something of an expert on how to resolve those challenges .
SS : After I did the TED Talk , what happened was — you know , I never really expected to write a book , I &apos;m not an author , I &apos;m not a writer , and it was viewed a lot , and it really started impacting people &apos;s lives .
I got this great — - one of the first letters I got was from a woman who said that she was offered a really big promotion at work , and she turned it down , and she told her best friend she turned it down , and her best friend said , you really need to watch this TED Talk .
And so she watched this TED Talk , and she went back the next day , she took the job , she went home , and she handed her husband the grocery list . ( Laughter ) And she said , I can do this .
And what really mattered to me — it wasn &apos;t only women in the corporate world , even though I did hear from a lot of them , and it did impact a lot of them , it was also people of all different circumstances .
There was a doctor I met who was an attending physician at Johns Hopkins , and he said that until he saw my TED Talk , it never really occurred to him that even though half the students in his med school classes were women , they weren &apos;t speaking as much as the men as he did his rounds .
So he started paying attention , and as he waited for raised hands , he realized the men &apos;s hands were up .
So he started encouraging the women to raise their hands more , and it still didn &apos;t work .
So he told everyone , no more hand raising , I &apos;m cold-calling .
So he could call evenly on men and women . And what he proved to himself was that the women knew the answers just as well or better , and he was able to go back to them and tell them that .
And then there was the woman , stay-at-home mom , lives in a really difficult neighborhood , with not a great school , she said that TED Talk — she &apos;s never had a corporate job , but that TED Talk inspired her to go to her school and fight for a better teacher for her child .
And I guess it was part of was finding my own voice .
And I realized that other women and men could find their voice through it , which is why I went from the talk to the book .
PM : And in the book , you not only found your voice , which is clear and strong in the book , but you also share what you &apos;ve learned — the experiences of other people in the lessons .
And that &apos;s what I &apos;m thinking about in terms of putting yourself in a — you became a sort of expert in how you lean in .
So what did that feel like , and become like in your life ?
To launch not just a book , not just a best-selling , best-viewed talk , but a movement , where people began to literally describe their actions at work as , I &apos;m leaning in .
SS : I mean , I &apos;m grateful , I &apos;m honored , I &apos;m happy , and it &apos;s the very beginning .
So I don &apos;t know if I &apos;m an expert , or if anyone is an expert . I certainly have done a lot of research .
I have read every study , I have pored over the materials , and the lessons are very clear . Because here &apos;s what we know : What we know is that stereotypes are holding women back from leadership roles all over the world .
It &apos;s so striking . &quot; &quot; Lean In &quot; &quot; is very global , I &apos;ve been all over the world , talking about it , and — cultures are so different .
Even within our own country , to Japan , to Korea , to China , to Asia , Europe , they &apos;re so different . Except for one thing : gender .
All over the world , no matter what our cultures are , we think men should be strong , assertive , aggressive , have voice ; we think women should speak when spoken to , help others .
Now we have , all over the world , women are called &quot; &quot; bossy . &quot; &quot; There is a word for &quot; &quot; bossy , &quot; &quot; for little girls , in every language there &apos;s one .
It &apos;s a word that &apos;s pretty much not used for little boys , because if a little boy leads , there &apos;s no negative word for it , it &apos;s expected . But if a little girl leads , she &apos;s bossy .
Now I know there aren &apos;t a lot of men here , but bear with me .
If you &apos;re a man , you &apos;ll have to represent your gender .
Please raise your hand if you &apos;ve been told you &apos;re too aggressive at work .
( Laughter ) There &apos;s always a few , it runs about five percent . Okay , get ready , gentlemen .
If you &apos;re a woman , please raise your hand if you &apos;ve ever been told you &apos;re too aggressive at work .
( Laughter ) That is what audiences have said in every country in the world , and it &apos;s deeply supported by the data .
Now , do we think women are more aggressive than men ? Of course not .
It &apos;s just that we judge them through a different lens , and a lot of the character traits that you must exhibit to perform at work , to get results , to lead , are ones that we think , in a man , he &apos;s a boss , and in a woman , she &apos;s bossy .
And the good news about this is that we can change this by acknowledging it .
One of the happiest moments I had in this whole journey is , after the book came out , I stood on a stage with John Chambers , the CEO of Cisco .
He read the book . He stood on a stage with me , he invited me in front of his whole management team , men and women , and he said , I thought we were good at this . I thought I was good at this .
And then I read this book , and I realized that we — my company — we have called all of our senior women too aggressive , and I &apos;m standing on this stage , and I &apos;m sorry .
And I want you to know we &apos;re never going to do it again .
PM : Can we send that to a lot of other people that we know ? ( Applause ) SS : And so John is doing that because he believes it &apos;s good for his company , and so this kind of acknowledgement of these biases can change it .
And so next time you all see someone call a little girl &quot; &quot; bossy , &quot; &quot; you walk right up to that person , big smile , and you say , &quot; &quot; That little girl &apos;s not bossy . That little girl has executive leadership skills . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) PM : I know that &apos;s what you &apos;re telling your daughter . SS : Absolutely .
PM : And you did focus in the book — and the reason , as you said , in writing it , was to create a dialogue about this .
I mean , let &apos;s just put it out there , face the fact that women are — in a time when we have more open doors , and more opportunities — are still not getting to the leadership positions .
So in the months that have come since the book , in which &quot; &quot; Lean In &quot; &quot; focused on that and said , here are some of the challenges that remain , and many of them we have to own within ourselves and look at ourselves . What has changed ?
Have you seen changes ?
SS : Well , there &apos;s certainly more dialogue , which is great .
But what really matters to me , and I think all of us , is action .
So everywhere I go , CEOs , they &apos;re mostly men , say to me , you &apos;re costing me so much money because all the women want to be paid as much as the men .
And to them I say , I &apos;m not sorry at all . ( Laughter ) At all . I mean , the women should be paid as much as the men .
Everywhere I go , women tell me they ask for raises .
Everywhere I go , women say they &apos;re getting better relationships with their spouses , asking for more help at home , asking for the promotions they should be getting at work , and importantly , believing it themselves . Even little things .
One of the governors of one of the states told me that he didn &apos;t realize that more women were , in fact , literally sitting on the side of the room , which they are , and now he made a rule that all the women on his staff need to sit at the table .
The foundation I started along with the book &quot; &quot; Lean In &quot; &quot; helps women , or men , start circles — small groups , it can be 10 , it can be however many you want , which meet once a month .
I would have hoped that by now , we &apos;d have about 500 circles . That would &apos;ve been great .
You know , 500 times roughly 10 .
There are over 12,000 circles in 50 countries in the world .
PM : Wow , that &apos;s amazing .
SS : And these are people who are meeting every single month .
I met one of them , I was in Beijing .
A group of women , they &apos;re all about 29 or 30 , they started the first Lean In circle in Beijing , several of them grew up in very poor , rural China .
These women are 29 , they are told by their society that they are &quot; &quot; left over , &quot; &quot; because they are not yet married , and the process of coming together once a month at a meeting is helping them define who they are for themselves .
What they want in their careers . The kind of partners they want , if at all .
I looked at them , we went around and introduced ourselves , and they all said their names and where they &apos;re from , and I said , I &apos;m Sheryl Sandberg , and this was my dream .
And I kind of just started crying .
Right , which , I admit , I do . Right ? I &apos;ve talked about it before .
But the fact that a woman so far away out in the world , who grew up in a rural village , who &apos;s being told to marry someone she doesn &apos;t want to marry , can now go meet once a month with a group of people and refuse that , and find life on her own terms .
That &apos;s the kind of change we have to hope for .
PM : Have you been surprised by the global nature of the message ?
Because I think when the book first came out , many people thought , well , this is a really important handbook for young women on their way up .
They need to look at this , anticipate the barriers , and recognize them , put them out in the open , have the dialogue about it , but that it &apos;s really for women who are that . Doing that . Pursuing the corporate world .
And yet the book is being read , as you say , in rural and developing countries .
What part of that has surprised you , and perhaps led to a new perspective on your part ?
SS : The book is about self-confidence , and about equality .
And it turns out , everywhere in the world , women need more self-confidence , because the world tells us we &apos;re not equal to men .
Everywhere in the world , we live in a world where the men get &quot; &quot; and , &quot; &quot; and women get &quot; &quot; or . &quot; &quot; I &apos;ve never met a man who &apos;s been asked how he does it all . ( Laughter ) Again , I &apos;m going to turn to the men in the audience : Please raise your hand if you &apos;ve been asked , how do you do it all ? ( Laughter )
Men only .
Women , women . Please raise your hand if you &apos;ve been asked how you do it all ?
We assume men can do it all , slash — have jobs and children .
We assume women can &apos;t , and that &apos;s ridiculous , because the great majority of women everywhere in the world , including the United States , work full time and have children .
And I think people don &apos;t fully understand how broad the message is .
There is a circle that &apos;s been started for rescued sex workers in Miami .
They &apos;re using &quot; &quot; Lean In &quot; &quot; to help people make the transition back to what would be a fair life , really rescuing them from their pimps , and using it .
There are dress-for-success groups in Texas which are using the book , for women who have never been to college .
And we know there are groups all the way to Ethiopia .
And so these messages of equality — of how women are told they can &apos;t have what men can have — how we assume that leadership is for men , how we assume that voice is for men , these affect all of us , and I think they are very universal .
And it &apos;s part of what TEDWomen does .
It unites all of us in a cause we have to believe in , which is more women , more voice , more equality .
PM : If you were invited now to make another TEDWomen talk , what would you say that is a result of this experience , for you personally , and what you &apos;ve learned about women , and men , as you &apos;ve made this journey ?
SS : I think I would say — I tried to say this strongly , but I think I can say it more strongly — I want to say that the status quo is not enough .
That it &apos;s not good enough , that it &apos;s not changing quickly enough .
Since I gave my TED Talk and published my book , another year of data came out from the U.S. Census .
And you know what we found ?
No movement in the wage gap for women in the United States .
Seventy-seven cents to the dollar .
If you are a black woman , 64 cents .
If you are a Latina , we &apos;re at 54 cents .
Do you know when the last time those numbers went up ?
2002 .
We are stagnating , we are stagnating in so many ways .
And I think we are not really being honest about that , for so many reasons . It &apos;s so hard to talk about gender .
We shy away from the word &quot; &quot; feminist , &quot; &quot; a word I really think we need to embrace .
We have to get rid of the word bossy and bring back — ( Applause ) I think I would say in a louder voice , we need to get rid of the word &quot; &quot; bossy &quot; &quot; and bring back the word &quot; &quot; feminist , &quot; &quot; because we need it . ( Applause )
PM : And we all need to do a lot more leaning in .
SS : A lot more leaning in .
PM : Thank you , Sheryl .
Thanks for leaning in and saying yes .
SS : Thank you .
( Applause )
What keeps us healthy and happy as we go through life ?
If you were going to invest now in your future best self , where would you put your time and your energy ?
There was a recent survey of millennials asking them what their most important life goals were , and over 80 percent said that a major life goal for them was to get rich .
And another 50 percent of those same young adults said that another major life goal was to become famous .
( Laughter ) And we &apos;re constantly told to lean in to work , to push harder and achieve more .
We &apos;re given the impression that these are the things that we need to go after in order to have a good life .
Pictures of entire lives , of the choices that people make and how those choices work out for them , those pictures are almost impossible to get .
Most of what we know about human life we know from asking people to remember the past , and as we know , hindsight is anything but 20 / 20 .
We forget vast amounts of what happens to us in life , and sometimes memory is downright creative .
What if we could study people from the time that they were teenagers all the way into old age to see what really keeps people happy and healthy ?
We did that .
The Harvard Study of Adult Development may be the longest study of adult life that &apos;s ever been done .
For 75 years , we &apos;ve tracked the lives of 724 men , year after year , asking about their work , their home lives , their health , and of course asking all along the way without knowing how their life stories were going to turn out .
Studies like this are exceedingly rare .
Almost all projects of this kind fall apart within a decade because too many people drop out of the study , or funding for the research dries up , or the researchers get distracted , or they die , and nobody moves the ball further down the field .
But through a combination of luck and the persistence of several generations of researchers , this study has survived .
About 60 of our original 724 men are still alive , still participating in the study , most of them in their 90s .
And we are now beginning to study the more than 2,000 children of these men .
And I &apos;m the fourth director of the study .
Since 1938 , we &apos;ve tracked the lives of two groups of men .
They all finished college during World War II , and then most went off to serve in the war .
And the second group that we &apos;ve followed was a group of boys from Boston &apos;s poorest neighborhoods , boys who were chosen for the study specifically because they were from some of the most troubled and disadvantaged families in the Boston of the 1930s .
Most lived in tenements , many without hot and cold running water .
When they entered the study , all of these teenagers were interviewed .
They were given medical exams .
We went to their homes and we interviewed their parents .
And then these teenagers grew up into adults who entered all walks of life .
They became factory workers and lawyers and bricklayers and doctors , one President of the United States .
Some developed alcoholism . A few developed schizophrenia .
Some climbed the social ladder from the bottom all the way to the very top , and some made that journey in the opposite direction .
The founders of this study would never in their wildest dreams have imagined that I would be standing here today , 75 years later , telling you that the study still continues .
Every two years , our patient and dedicated research staff calls up our men and asks them if we can send them yet one more set of questions about their lives .
Many of the inner city Boston men ask us , &quot; Why do you keep wanting to study me ? My life just isn &apos;t that interesting . &quot;
( Laughter ) To get the clearest picture of these lives , we don &apos;t just send them questionnaires .
We interview them in their living rooms .
We get their medical records from their doctors .
We draw their blood , we scan their brains , we talk to their children .
We videotape them talking with their wives about their deepest concerns .
And when , about a decade ago , we finally asked the wives if they would join us as members of the study , many of the women said , &quot; &quot; You know , it &apos;s about time . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) So what have we learned ?
What are the lessons that come from the tens of thousands of pages of information that we &apos;ve generated on these lives ?
Well , the lessons aren &apos;t about wealth or fame or working harder and harder .
The clearest message that we get from this 75-year study is this : Good relationships keep us happier and healthier . Period .
We &apos;ve learned three big lessons about relationships .
The first is that social connections are really good for us , and that loneliness kills .
It turns out that people who are more socially connected to family , to friends , to community , are happier , they &apos;re physically healthier , and they live longer than people who are less well connected .
And the experience of loneliness turns out to be toxic .
People who are more isolated than they want to be from others find that they are less happy , their health declines earlier in midlife , their brain functioning declines sooner and they live shorter lives than people who are not lonely .
And the sad fact is that at any given time , more than one in five Americans will report that they &apos;re lonely .
And we know that you can be lonely in a crowd and you can be lonely in a marriage , so the second big lesson that we learned is that it &apos;s not just the number of friends you have , and it &apos;s not whether or not you &apos;re in a committed relationship , but it &apos;s the quality of your close relationships that matters .
It turns out that living in the midst of conflict is really bad for our health .
High-conflict marriages , for example , without much affection , turn out to be very bad for our health , perhaps worse than getting divorced .
And living in the midst of good , warm relationships is protective .
Once we had followed our men all the way into their 80s , we wanted to look back at them at midlife and to see if we could predict who was going to grow into a happy , healthy octogenarian and who wasn &apos;t .
And when we gathered together everything we knew about them at age 50 , it wasn &apos;t their middle age cholesterol levels that predicted how they were going to grow old .
It was how satisfied they were in their relationships .
The people who were the most satisfied in their relationships at age 50 were the healthiest at age 80 .
And good , close relationships seem to buffer us from some of the slings and arrows of getting old .
Our most happily partnered men and women reported , in their 80s , that on the days when they had more physical pain , their mood stayed just as happy .
But the people who were in unhappy relationships , on the days when they reported more physical pain , it was magnified by more emotional pain .
And the third big lesson that we learned about relationships and our health is that good relationships don &apos;t just protect our bodies , they protect our brains .
It turns out that being in a securely attached relationship to another person in your 80s is protective , that the people who are in relationships where they really feel they can count on the other person in times of need , those people &apos;s memories stay sharper longer .
And the people in relationships where they feel they really can &apos;t count on the other one , those are the people who experience earlier memory decline .
And those good relationships , they don &apos;t have to be smooth all the time .
Some of our octogenarian couples could bicker with each other day in and day out , but as long as they felt that they could really count on the other when the going got tough , those arguments didn &apos;t take a toll on their memories .
So this message , that good , close relationships are good for our health and well-being , this is wisdom that &apos;s as old as the hills .
Why is this so hard to get and so easy to ignore ?
Well , we &apos;re human .
What we &apos;d really like is a quick fix , something we can get that &apos;ll make our lives good and keep them that way .
Relationships are messy and they &apos;re complicated and the hard work of tending to family and friends , it &apos;s not sexy or glamorous .
It &apos;s also lifelong . It never ends .
The people in our 75-year study who were the happiest in retirement were the people who had actively worked to replace workmates with new playmates .
Just like the millennials in that recent survey , many of our men when they were starting out as young adults really believed that fame and wealth and high achievement were what they needed to go after to have a good life .
But over and over , over these 75 years , our study has shown that the people who fared the best were the people who leaned in to relationships , with family , with friends , with community .
So what about you ?
Let &apos;s say you &apos;re 25 , or you &apos;re 40 , or you &apos;re 60 .
What might leaning in to relationships even look like ?
Well , the possibilities are practically endless .
It might be something as simple as replacing screen time with people time or livening up a stale relationship by doing something new together , long walks or date nights , or reaching out to that family member who you haven &apos;t spoken to in years , because those all-too-common family feuds take a terrible toll on the people who hold the grudges .
I &apos;d like to close with a quote from Mark Twain .
More than a century ago , he was looking back on his life , and he wrote this : &quot; &quot; There isn &apos;t time , so brief is life , for bickerings , apologies , heartburnings , callings to account .
There is only time for loving , and but an instant , so to speak , for that . &quot; &quot; The good life is built with good relationships .
Thank you .
( Applause )
In the past year , I want you to just raise your hand if you &apos;ve experienced relatively little stress .
Anyone ?
How about a moderate amount of stress ?
Yeah . Me too .
But that is not my confession .
My confession is this : I am a health psychologist , and my mission is to help people be happier and healthier .
But I fear that something I &apos;ve been teaching for the last 10 years is doing more harm than good , and it has to do with stress .
It increases the risk of everything from the common cold to cardiovascular disease .
But I have changed my mind about stress , and today , I want to change yours .
Let me start with the study that made me rethink my whole approach to stress .
This study tracked 30,000 adults in the United States for eight years , and they started by asking people , &quot; How much stress have you experienced in the last year ? &quot;
People who experienced a lot of stress in the previous year had a 43 percent increased risk of dying .
But that was only true for the people who also believed that stress is harmful for your health .
( Laughter ) People who experienced a lot of stress but did not view stress as harmful were no more likely to die .
In fact , they had the lowest risk of dying of anyone in the study , including people who had relatively little stress .
Now the researchers estimated that over the eight years they were tracking deaths , 182,000 Americans died prematurely , not from stress , but from the belief that stress is bad for you .
( Laughter ) That is over 20,000 deaths a year .
Now , if that estimate is correct , that would make believing stress is bad for you the 15th largest cause of death in the United States last year , killing more people than skin cancer , HIV / AIDS and homicide .
( Laughter ) You can see why this study freaked me out .
Here I &apos;ve been spending so much energy telling people stress is bad for your health .
So this study got me wondering : Can changing how you think about stress make you healthier ?
When you change your mind about stress , you can change your body &apos;s response to stress .
Now to explain how this works , I want you all to pretend that you are participants in a study designed to stress you out .
It &apos;s called the social stress test .
You come into the laboratory , and you &apos;re told you have to give a five-minute impromptu speech on your personal weaknesses to a panel of expert evaluators sitting right in front of you , and to make sure you feel the pressure , there are bright lights and a camera in your face , kind of like this .
( Laughter ) And the evaluators have been trained to give you discouraging , non-verbal feedback , like this .
( Exhales ) ( Laughter ) Now that you &apos;re sufficiently demoralized , time for part two : a math test .
And unbeknownst to you , the experimenter has been trained to harass you during it .
You &apos;re going to do this out loud , as fast as you can , starting with 996 .
That guy made a mistake .
Your heart might be pounding , you might be breathing faster , maybe breaking out into a sweat .
And normally , we interpret these physical changes as anxiety or signs that we aren &apos;t coping very well with the pressure .
But what if you viewed them instead as signs that your body was energized , was preparing you to meet this challenge ?
Now that is exactly what participants were told in a study conducted at Harvard University .
Before they went through the social stress test , they were taught to rethink their stress response as helpful .
It &apos;s getting more oxygen to your brain .
And participants who learned to view the stress response as helpful for their performance , well , they were less stressed out , less anxious , more confident , but the most fascinating finding to me was how their physical stress response changed .
Now , in a typical stress response , your heart rate goes up , and your blood vessels constrict like this .
And this is one of the reasons that chronic stress is sometimes associated with cardiovascular disease .
It &apos;s not really healthy to be in this state all the time .
It actually looks a lot like what happens in moments of joy and courage .
Over a lifetime of stressful experiences , this one biological change could be the difference between a stress-induced heart attack at age 50 and living well into your 90s .
And this is really what the new science of stress reveals , that how you think about stress matters .
I no longer want to get rid of your stress .
I want to make you better at stress .
And we just did a little intervention .
If you raised your hand and said you &apos;d had a lot of stress in the last year , we could have saved your life , because hopefully the next time your heart is pounding from stress , you &apos;re going to remember this talk and you &apos;re going to think to yourself , this is my body helping me rise to this challenge .
And when you view stress in that way , your body believes you , and your stress response becomes healthier .
Now I said I have over a decade of demonizing stress to redeem myself from , so we are going to do one more intervention .
I want to tell you about one of the most under-appreciated aspects of the stress response , and the idea is this : Stress makes you social .
To understand this side of stress , we need to talk about a hormone , oxytocin , and I know oxytocin has already gotten as much hype as a hormone can get .
It even has its own cute nickname , the cuddle hormone , because it &apos;s released when you hug someone .
But this is a very small part of what oxytocin is involved in .
It fine-tunes your brain &apos;s social instincts .
It primes you to do things that strengthen close relationships .
Oxytocin makes you crave physical contact with your friends and family .
It enhances your empathy .
It even makes you more willing to help and support the people you care about .
But here &apos;s what most people don &apos;t understand about oxytocin .
It &apos;s a stress hormone .
Your pituitary gland pumps this stuff out as part of the stress response .
It &apos;s as much a part of your stress response as the adrenaline that makes your heart pound .
And when oxytocin is released in the stress response , it is motivating you to seek support .
Your biological stress response is nudging you to tell someone how you feel , instead of bottling it up .
Your stress response wants to make sure you notice when someone else in your life is struggling so that you can support each other .
Okay , so how is knowing this side of stress going to make you healthier ?
It also acts on your body , and one of its main roles in your body is to protect your cardiovascular system from the effects of stress .
It &apos;s a natural anti-inflammatory .
It also helps your blood vessels stay relaxed during stress .
But my favorite effect on the body is actually on the heart .
Your heart has receptors for this hormone , and oxytocin helps heart cells regenerate and heal from any stress-induced damage .
And the cool thing is that all of these physical benefits of oxytocin are enhanced by social contact and social support .
So when you reach out to others under stress , either to seek support or to help someone else , you release more of this hormone , your stress response becomes healthier , and you actually recover faster from stress .
I find this amazing , that your stress response has a built-in mechanism for stress resilience , and that mechanism is human connection .
This study tracked about 1,000 adults in the United States , and they ranged in age from 34 to 93 , and they started the study by asking , &quot; How much stress have you experienced in the last year ? &quot;
They also asked , &quot; &quot; How much time have you spent helping out friends , neighbors , people in your community ? &quot; &quot; And then they used public records for the next five years to find out who died .
Okay , so the bad news first : For every major stressful life experience , like financial difficulties or family crisis , that increased the risk of dying by 30 percent .
But — and I hope you are expecting a &quot; &quot; but &quot; &quot; by now — but that wasn &apos;t true for everyone .
People who spent time caring for others showed absolutely no stress-related increase in dying .
And so we see once again that the harmful effects of stress on your health are not inevitable .
How you think and how you act can transform your experience of stress .
And when you choose to connect with others under stress , you can create resilience .
Now I wouldn &apos;t necessarily ask for more stressful experiences in my life , but this science has given me a whole new appreciation for stress .
Stress gives us access to our hearts .
The compassionate heart that finds joy and meaning in connecting with others , and yes , your pounding physical heart , working so hard to give you strength and energy .
And when you choose to view stress in this way , you &apos;re not just getting better at stress , you &apos;re actually making a pretty profound statement .
You &apos;re saying that you can trust yourself to handle life &apos;s challenges .
( Applause ) Chris Anderson : This is kind of amazing , what you &apos;re telling us .
It seems amazing to me that a belief about stress can make so much difference to someone &apos;s life expectancy .
How would that extend to advice , like , if someone is making a lifestyle choice between , say , a stressful job and a non-stressful job , does it matter which way they go ?
It &apos;s equally wise to go for the stressful job so long as you believe that you can handle it , in some sense ?
KM : Yeah , and one thing we know for certain is that chasing meaning is better for your health than trying to avoid discomfort .
And so I would say that &apos;s really the best way to make decisions , is go after what it is that creates meaning in your life and then trust yourself to handle the stress that follows .
I &apos;d like to talk today about a powerful and fundamental aspect of who we are : our voice .
Each one of us has a unique voiceprint that reflects our age , our size , even our lifestyle and personality .
In the words of the poet Longfellow , &quot; the human voice is the organ of the soul . &quot;
As a speech scientist , I &apos;m fascinated by how the voice is produced , and I have an idea for how it can be engineered .
That &apos;s what I &apos;d like to share with you .
I &apos;m going to start by playing you a sample of a voice that you may recognize .
( Recording ) Stephen Hawking : &quot; &quot; I would have thought it was fairly obvious what I meant . &quot; &quot; Rupal Patel : That was the voice of Professor Stephen Hawking .
What you may not know is that same voice may also be used by this little girl who is unable to speak because of a neurological condition .
In fact , all of these individuals may be using the same voice , and that &apos;s because there &apos;s only a few options available .
In the U.S. alone , there are 2.5 million Americans who are unable to speak , and many of whom use computerized devices to communicate .
Now that &apos;s millions of people worldwide who are using generic voices , including Professor Hawking , who uses an American-accented voice .
This lack of individuation of the synthetic voice really hit home when I was at an assistive technology conference a few years ago , and I recall walking into an exhibit hall and seeing a little girl and a grown man having a conversation using their devices , different devices , but the same voice .
And I looked around and I saw this happening all around me , literally hundreds of individuals using a handful of voices , voices that didn &apos;t fit their bodies or their personalities .
We wouldn &apos;t dream of fitting a little girl with the prosthetic limb of a grown man .
So why then the same prosthetic voice ?
It really struck me , and I wanted to do something about this .
I &apos;m going to play you now a sample of someone who has , two people actually , who have severe speech disorders .
I want you to take a listen to how they sound .
They &apos;re saying the same utterance .
( First voice ) ( Second voice ) You probably didn &apos;t understand what they said , but I hope that you heard their unique vocal identities .
So what I wanted to do next is , I wanted to find out how we could harness these residual vocal abilities and build a technology that could be customized for them , voices that could be customized for them .
So I reached out to my collaborator , Tim Bunnell .
Dr. Bunnell is an expert in speech synthesis , and what he &apos;d been doing is building personalized voices for people by putting together pre-recorded samples of their voice and reconstructing a voice for them .
These are people who had lost their voice later in life .
We didn &apos;t have the luxury of pre-recorded samples of speech for those born with speech disorder .
But I thought , there had to be a way to reverse engineer a voice from whatever little is left over .
So we decided to do exactly that .
We set out with a little bit of funding from the National Science Foundation , to create custom-crafted voices that captured their unique vocal identities .
We call this project VocaliD , or vocal I.D. , for vocal identity .
Now before I get into the details of how the voice is made and let you listen to it , I need to give you a real quick speech science lesson . Okay ?
So first , we know that the voice is changing dramatically over the course of development .
Children sound different from teens who sound different from adults .
We &apos;ve all experienced this .
Fact number two is that speech is a combination of the source , which is the vibrations generated by your voice box , which are then pushed through the rest of the vocal tract .
These are the chambers of your head and neck that vibrate , and they actually filter that source sound to produce consonants and vowels .
So the combination of source and filter is how we produce speech .
And that happens in one individual .
Now I told you earlier that I &apos;d spent a good part of my career understanding and studying the source characteristics of people with severe speech disorder , and what I &apos;ve found is that even though their filters were impaired , they were able to modulate their source : the pitch , the loudness , the tempo of their voice .
These are called prosody , and I &apos;ve been documenting for years that the prosodic abilities of these individuals are preserved .
So when I realized that those same cues are also important for speaker identity , I had this idea .
Why don &apos;t we take the source from the person we want the voice to sound like , because it &apos;s preserved , and borrow the filter from someone about the same age and size , because they can articulate speech , and then mix them ?
Because when we mix them , we can get a voice that &apos;s as clear as our surrogate talker — that &apos;s the person we borrowed the filter from — and is similar in identity to our target talker .
It &apos;s that simple .
That &apos;s the science behind what we &apos;re doing .
So once you have that in mind , how do you go about building this voice ?
Well , you have to find someone who is willing to be a surrogate .
It &apos;s not such an ominous thing .
Being a surrogate donor only requires you to say a few hundred to a few thousand utterances .
The process goes something like this .
( Video ) Voice : Things happen in pairs .
I love to sleep .
The sky is blue without clouds .
RP : Now she &apos;s going to go on like this for about three to four hours , and the idea is not for her to say everything that the target is going to want to say , but the idea is to cover all the different combinations of the sounds that occur in the language .
The more speech you have , the better sounding voice you &apos;re going to have .
Once you have those recordings , what we need to do is we have to parse these recordings into little snippets of speech , one- or two-sound combinations , sometimes even whole words that start populating a dataset or a database .
We &apos;re going to call this database a voice bank .
Now the power of the voice bank is that from this voice bank , we can now say any new utterance , like , &quot; &quot; I love chocolate &quot; &quot; — everyone needs to be able to say that — fish through that database and find all the segments necessary to say that utterance .
( Video ) Voice : I love chocolate .
RP : So that &apos;s speech synthesis .
It &apos;s called concatenative synthesis , and that &apos;s what we &apos;re using .
That &apos;s not the novel part .
What &apos;s novel is how we make it sound like this young woman .
This is Samantha .
I met her when she was nine , and since then , my team and I have been trying to build her a personalized voice .
We first had to find a surrogate donor , and then we had to have Samantha produce some utterances .
What she can produce are mostly vowel-like sounds , but that &apos;s enough for us to extract her source characteristics .
What happens next is best described by my daughter &apos;s analogy . She &apos;s six .
She calls it mixing colors to paint voices .
It &apos;s beautiful . It &apos;s exactly that .
Samantha &apos;s voice is like a concentrated sample of red food dye which we can infuse into the recordings of her surrogate to get a pink voice just like this .
( Video ) Samantha : Aaaaaah .
RP : So now , Samantha can say this .
( Video ) Samantha : This voice is only for me .
I can &apos;t wait to use my new voice with my friends .
RP : Thank you . ( Applause ) I &apos;ll never forget the gentle smile that spread across her face when she heard that voice for the first time .
Now there &apos;s millions of people around the world like Samantha , millions , and we &apos;ve only begun to scratch the surface .
What we &apos;ve done so far is we have a few surrogate talkers from around the U.S.
who have donated their voices , and we have been using those to build our first few personalized voices .
But there &apos;s so much more work to be done .
For Samantha , her surrogate came from somewhere in the Midwest , a stranger who gave her the gift of voice .
And as a scientist , I &apos;m so excited to take this work out of the laboratory and finally into the real world so it can have real-world impact .
What I want to share with you next is how I envision taking this work to that next level .
I imagine a whole world of surrogate donors from all walks of life , different sizes , different ages , coming together in this voice drive to give people voices that are as colorful as their personalities .
To do that as a first step , we &apos;ve put together this website , VocaliD.org , as a way to bring together those who want to join us as voice donors , as expertise donors , in whatever way to make this vision a reality .
They say that giving blood can save lives .
Well , giving your voice can change lives .
All we need is a few hours of speech from our surrogate talker , and as little as a vowel from our target talker , to create a unique vocal identity .
So that &apos;s the science behind what we &apos;re doing .
I want to end by circling back to the human side that is really the inspiration for this work .
About five years ago , we built our very first voice for a little boy named William .
When his mom first heard this voice , she said , &quot; &quot; This is what William would have sounded like had he been able to speak . &quot; &quot; And then I saw William typing a message on his device .
I wondered , what was he thinking ?
Imagine carrying around someone else &apos;s voice for nine years and finally finding your own voice .
Imagine that .
This is what William said : &quot; Never heard me before . &quot;
Thank you .
( Applause )
Hannah is excited to be going to college .
She couldn &apos;t wait to get out of her parents &apos; house , to prove to them that she &apos;s an adult , and to prove to her new friends that she belongs .
She heads to a campus party where she sees a guy that she has a crush on .
Let &apos;s call him Mike .
The next day , Hannah wakes up with a pounding headache .
She can only remember the night in flashes .
But what she does remember is throwing up in the hall outside Mike &apos;s room and staring at the wall silently while he was inside her , wanting it to stop , then shakily stumbling home .
She doesn &apos;t feel good about what happened , but she thinks , &quot; &quot; Maybe this is just what sex in college is ? &quot; &quot; One in five women and one in 13 men will be sexually assaulted at some point during their college career in the United States .
Less than 10 percent will ever report their assault to their school or to the police .
And those who do , on average , wait 11 months to make the report .
Hannah initially just feels like dealing with what happened on her own .
But when she sees Mike taking girls home from parties , she &apos;s worried about them .
After graduation , Hannah learns that she was one of five women who Mike did the exact same thing to .
And this is not an unlikely scenario because 90 percent of sexual assaults are committed by repeat offenders .
But with such low reporting rates , it &apos;s fairly unlikely that even repeat perpetrators will be reported , much less anything happen if they are .
In fact , only six percent of assaults reported to the police end with the assailant spending a single day in prison .
Meaning , there &apos;s a 99 percent chance that they &apos;ll get away with it .
This means there &apos;s practically no deterrent to assault in the United States .
Now , I &apos;m an infectious disease epidemiologist by training .
I &apos;m interested in systems and networks and where we can concentrate our resources to do the most good .
So this , to me , is a tragic but a solvable problem .
And so we did .
We started by talking to college survivors .
And what they wish they &apos;d had in college is pretty simple ; they wanted a website , one they could use at the time and place that felt safest to them with clearly written information about their reporting options , with the ability to electronically report their assault , rather than having the first step to go in and talk to someone who may or may not believe them .
With the option to create a secure , timestamped document of what happened to them , preserving evidence even if they don &apos;t want to report yet .
And lastly , and perhaps most critically , with the ability to report their assault only if someone else reported the same assailant .
You see , knowing that you weren &apos;t the only one changes everything .
It changes the way you frame your own experience , it changes the way you think about your perpetrator , it means that if you do come forward , you &apos;ll have someone else &apos;s back and they &apos;ll have yours .
We created a website that actually does this and we launched it &#91; ... &#93; in August , on two college campuses .
And we included a unique matching system where if Mike &apos;s first victim had come forward , saved her record , entered into the matching system and named Mike , and Mike &apos;s second victim had done the same thing a few months later , they would have matched and the verified contact information of both survivors would have been sent to the authorities at the same time for investigation and follow up .
If a system like this had existed for Hannah and her peers , it &apos;s more likely that they would have reported , that they would have been believed , and that Mike would have been kicked off campus , gone to jail , or at least gotten the help that he needed .
And if we were able to stop repeat offenders like Mike after just their second assault following a match , survivors like Hannah would never even be assaulted in the first place .
We could prevent 59 percent of sexual assaults just by stopping repeat perpetrators earlier on .
And because we &apos;re creating a real deterrent to assault , for perhaps the first time , maybe the Mikes of the world would never even try to assault anyone .
The type of system I &apos;m describing , the type of system that survivors want is a type of information escrow , meaning an entity that holds on to information for you and only releases it to a third party when certain pre-agreed upon conditions are met , such as a match .
The application that we built is for college campuses .
But the same type of system could be used in the military or even the workplace .
We don &apos;t have to live in a world where 99 percent of rapists get away with it .
We can create one where those who do wrong are held accountable , where survivors get the support and justice they deserve , where the authorities get the information they need , and where there &apos;s a real deterrent to violating the rights of another human being .
Thank you .
( Applause )
I &apos;m turning 44 next month , and I have the sense that 44 is going to be a very good year , a year of fulfillment , realization .
I have that sense , not because of anything particular in store for me , but because I read it would be a good year in a 1968 book by Norman Mailer .
&quot; He felt his own age , forty-four ... &quot;
wrote Mailer in &quot; &quot; The Armies of the Night , &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; ... felt as if he were a solid embodiment of bone , muscle , heart , mind , and sentiment to be a man , as if he had arrived . &quot; &quot; Yes , I know Mailer wasn &apos;t writing about me .
But I also know that he was ; for all of us — you , me , the subject of his book , age more or less in step , proceed from birth along the same great sequence : through the wonders and confinements of childhood ; the emancipations and frustrations of adolescence ; the empowerments and millstones of adulthood ; the recognitions and resignations of old age .
There are patterns to life , and they are shared .
We record them , too .
We write them down in books , where they become narratives that we can then read and recognize .
Books tell us who we &apos;ve been , who we are , who we will be , too .
So they have for millennia .
As James Salter wrote , &quot; Life passes into pages if it passes into anything . &quot;
And so six years ago , a thought leapt to mind : if life passed into pages , there were , somewhere , passages written about every age .
If I could find them , I could assemble them into a narrative .
I could assemble them into a life , a long life , a hundred-year life , the entirety of that same great sequence through which the luckiest among us pass .
I was then 37 years old , &quot; &quot; an age of discretion , &quot; &quot; wrote William Trevor .
I was prone to meditating on time and age .
An illness in the family and later an injury to me had long made clear that growing old could not be assumed .
And besides , growing old only postponed the inevitable , time seeing through what circumstance did not .
It was all a bit disheartening .
A list , though , would last .
To chronicle a life year by vulnerable year would be to clasp and to ground what was fleeting , would be to provide myself and others a glimpse into the future , whether we made it there or not .
And when I then began to compile my list , I was quickly obsessed , searching pages and pages for ages and ages .
Here we were at every annual step through our first hundred years .
&quot; Twenty-seven ... a time of sudden revelations , &quot; &quot; sixty-two , ... of subtle diminishments . &quot;
For starters , we now live longer , and so age more slowly .
Christopher Isherwood used the phrase &quot; &quot; the yellow leaf &quot; &quot; to describe a man at 53 , only one century after Lord Byron used it to describe himself at 36 .
( Laughter ) I was mindful , too , that life can swing wildly and unpredictably from one year to the next , and that people may experience the same age differently .
But even so , as the list coalesced , so , too , on the page , clear as the reflection in the mirror , did the life that I had been living : finding at 20 that &quot; &quot; ... one is less and less sure of who one is ; &quot; &quot; emerging at 30 from the &quot; &quot; ... wasteland of preparation into active life ; &quot; &quot; learning at 40 &quot; &quot; ... to close softly the doors to rooms &#91; I would &#93; not be coming back to . &quot; &quot; There I was .
Of course , there we all are .
Milton Glaser , the great graphic designer whose beautiful visualizations you see here , and who today is 85 — all those years &quot; &quot; ... a ripening and an apotheosis , &quot; &quot; wrote Nabokov — noted to me that , like art and like color , literature helps us to remember what we &apos;ve experienced .
And indeed , when I shared the list with my grandfather , he nodded in recognition .
He was then 95 and soon to die , which , wrote Roberto Bolaño , &quot; ... is the same as never dying . &quot;
And looking back , he said to me that , yes , Proust was right that at 22 , we are sure we will not die , just as a thanatologist named Edwin Shneidman was right that at 90 , we are sure we will .
It had happened to him , as to them .
Now the list is done : a hundred years .
And looking back over it , I know that I am not done .
I still have my life to live , still have many more pages to pass into .
And mindful of Mailer , I await 44 .
Thank you .
What I thought I would do is I would start with a simple request .
I &apos;d like all of you to pause for a moment , you wretched weaklings , and take stock of your miserable existence .
( Laughter ) Now that was the advice that St. Benedict gave his rather startled followers in the fifth century .
It was the advice that I decided to follow myself when I turned 40 .
Up until that moment , I had been that classic corporate warrior — I was eating too much , I was drinking too much , I was working too hard and I was neglecting the family .
And I decided that I would try and turn my life around .
In particular , I decided I would try to address the thorny issue of work-life balance .
So I stepped back from the workforce , and I spent a year at home with my wife and four young children .
But all I learned about work-life balance from that year was that I found it quite easy to balance work and life when I didn &apos;t have any work .
( Laughter ) Not a very useful skill , especially when the money runs out .
So I went back to work , and I &apos;ve spent these seven years since struggling with , studying and writing about work-life balance .
And I have four observations I &apos;d like to share with you today .
The first is : if society &apos;s to make any progress on this issue , we need an honest debate .
But the trouble is so many people talk so much rubbish about work-life balance .
All the discussions about flexi-time or dress-down Fridays or paternity leave only serve to mask the core issue , which is that certain job and career choices are fundamentally incompatible with being meaningfully engaged on a day-to-day basis with a young family .
Now the first step in solving any problem is acknowledging the reality of the situation you &apos;re in .
And the reality of the society that we &apos;re in is there are thousands and thousands of people out there leading lives of quiet , screaming desperation , where they work long , hard hours at jobs they hate to enable them to buy things they don &apos;t need to impress people they don &apos;t like .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) It &apos;s my contention that going to work on Friday in jeans and &#91; a &#93; T-shirt isn &apos;t really getting to the nub of the issue . ( Laughter )
The second observation I &apos;d like to make is we need to face the truth that governments and corporations aren &apos;t going to solve this issue for us .
We should stop looking outside .
It &apos;s up to us as individuals to take control and responsibility for the type of lives that we want to lead .
If you don &apos;t design your life , someone else will design it for you , and you may just not like their idea of balance .
It &apos;s particularly important — this isn &apos;t on the World Wide Web , is it ? I &apos;m about to get fired — it &apos;s particularly important that you never put the quality of your life in the hands of a commercial corporation .
Now I &apos;m not talking here just about the bad companies — the &quot; &quot; abattoirs of the human soul , &quot; &quot; as I call them .
( Laughter ) I &apos;m talking about all companies .
Because commercial companies are inherently designed to get as much out of you &#91; as &#93; they can get away with .
It &apos;s in their nature ; it &apos;s in their DNA ; it &apos;s what they do — even the good , well-intentioned companies .
On the one hand , putting childcare facilities in the workplace is wonderful and enlightened .
On the other hand , it &apos;s a nightmare — it just means you spend more time at the bloody office .
We have to be responsible for setting and enforcing the boundaries that we want in our life .
The third observation is we have to be careful with the time frame that we choose upon which to judge our balance .
Before I went back to work after my year at home , I sat down and I wrote out a detailed , step-by-step description of the ideal balanced day that I aspired to .
And it went like this : wake up well rested after a good night &apos;s sleep .
Have sex .
Walk the dog .
Have breakfast with my wife and children .
Have sex again .
( Laughter ) Drive the kids to school on the way to the office .
Do three hours &apos; work .
Play a sport with a friend at lunchtime .
Do another three hours &apos; work .
Meet some mates in the pub for an early evening drink .
Drive home for dinner with my wife and kids .
Meditate for half an hour .
Have sex .
Walk the dog . Have sex again .
Go to bed .
( Applause ) How often do you think I have that day ?
( Laughter ) We need to be realistic .
You can &apos;t do it all in one day .
We need to elongate the time frame upon which we judge the balance in our life , but we need to elongate it without falling into the trap of the &quot; &quot; I &apos;ll have a life when I retire , when my kids have left home , when my wife has divorced me , my health is failing , I &apos;ve got no mates or interests left . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) A day is too short ; &quot; &quot; after I retire &quot; &quot; is too long .
There &apos;s got to be a middle way .
A fourth observation : We need to approach balance in a balanced way .
A friend came to see me last year — and she doesn &apos;t mind me telling this story — a friend came to see me last year and said , &quot; &quot; Nigel , I &apos;ve read your book .
And I realize that my life is completely out of balance .
It &apos;s totally dominated by work .
I work 10 hours a day ; I commute two hours a day .
All of my relationships have failed .
There &apos;s nothing in my life apart from my work .
So I &apos;ve decided to get a grip and sort it out .
So I joined a gym . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Now I don &apos;t mean to mock , but being a fit 10-hour-a-day office rat isn &apos;t more balanced ; it &apos;s more fit . ( Laughter )
Lovely though physical exercise may be , there are other parts to life — there &apos;s the intellectual side ; there &apos;s the emotional side ; there &apos;s the spiritual side .
And to be balanced , I believe we have to attend to all of those areas — not just do 50 stomach crunches .
Now that can be daunting .
Because people say , &quot; &quot; Bloody hell mate , I haven &apos;t got time to get fit .
You want me to go to church and call my mother . &quot; &quot; And I understand .
I truly understand how that can be daunting .
But an incident that happened a couple of years ago gave me a new perspective .
My wife , who is somewhere in the audience today , called me up at the office and said , &quot; &quot; Nigel , you need to pick our youngest son &quot; &quot; — Harry — &quot; &quot; up from school . &quot; &quot; Because she had to be somewhere else with the other three children for that evening .
So I left work an hour early that afternoon and picked Harry up at the school gates .
We walked down to the local park , messed around on the swings , played some silly games .
I then walked him up the hill to the local cafe , and we shared a pizza for two , then walked down the hill to our home , and I gave him his bath and put him in his Batman pajamas .
I then read him a chapter of Roald Dahl &apos;s &quot; &quot; James and the Giant Peach . &quot; &quot; I then put him to bed , tucked him in , gave him a kiss on his forehead and said , &quot; &quot; Goodnight , mate , &quot; &quot; and walked out of his bedroom .
As I was walking out of his bedroom , he said , &quot; &quot; Dad ? &quot; &quot; I went , &quot; &quot; Yes , mate ? &quot; &quot; He went , &quot; &quot; Dad , this has been the best day of my life , ever . &quot; &quot; I hadn &apos;t done anything , hadn &apos;t taken him to Disney World or bought him a Playstation .
Now my point is the small things matter .
Being more balanced doesn &apos;t mean dramatic upheaval in your life .
With the smallest investment in the right places , you can radically transform the quality of your relationships and the quality of your life .
Moreover , I think , it can transform society .
Because if enough people do it , we can change society &apos;s definition of success away from the moronically simplistic notion that the person with the most money when he dies wins , to a more thoughtful and balanced definition of what a life well lived looks like .
And that , I think , is an idea worth spreading .
( Applause )
I &apos;m speaking about compassion from an Islamic point of view , and perhaps my faith is not very well thought of as being one that is grounded in compassion .
The truth of the matter is otherwise .
Our holy book , the Koran , consists of 114 chapters , and each chapter begins with what we call the basmala , the saying of &quot; &quot; In the name of God , the all compassionate , the all merciful , &quot; &quot; or , as Sir Richard Burton — not the Richard Burton who was married to Elizabeth Taylor , but the Sir Richard Burton who lived a century before that and who was a worldwide traveler and translator of many works of literature — translates it . &quot; &quot; In the name of God , the compassionating , the compassionate . &quot; &quot; And in a saying of the Koran , which to Muslims is God speaking to humanity , God says to his prophet Muhammad —
whom we believe to be the last of a series of prophets , beginning with Adam , including Noah , including Moses , including Abraham , including Jesus Christ , and ending with Muhammad — that , &quot; &quot; We have not sent you , O Muhammad , except as a &apos; rahmah , &apos; except as a source of compassion to humanity . &quot; &quot; For us human beings , and certainly for us as Muslims , whose mission , and whose purpose in following the path of the prophet is to make ourselves as much like the prophet .
And the prophet , in one of his sayings , said , &quot; Adorn yourselves with the attributes of God . &quot;
And because God Himself said that the primary attribute of his is compassion — in fact , the Koran says that &quot; &quot; God decreed upon himself compassion , &quot; &quot; or , &quot; &quot; reigned himself in by compassion &quot; &quot; — therefore , our objective and our mission must be to be sources of compassion , activators of compassion , actors of compassion and speakers of compassion and doers of compassion .
That is all well and good , but where do we go wrong , and what is the source of the lack of compassion in the world ?
For the answer to this , we turn to our spiritual path .
In every religious tradition , there is the outer path and the inner path , or the exoteric path and the esoteric path .
The esoteric path of Islam is more popularly known as Sufism , or &quot; &quot; tasawwuf &quot; &quot; in Arabic .
And these doctors or these masters , these spiritual masters of the Sufi tradition , refer to teachings and examples of our prophet that teach us where the source of our problems lies .
In one of the battles that the prophet waged , he told his followers , &quot; &quot; We are returning from the lesser war to the greater war , to the greater battle . &quot; &quot; And they said , &quot; &quot; Messenger of God , we are battle-weary .
How can we go to a greater battle ? &quot; &quot; He said , &quot; &quot; That is the battle of the self , the battle of the ego . &quot; &quot; The sources of human problems have to do with egotism , &quot; &quot; I. &quot; &quot; The famous Sufi master Rumi , who is very well known to most of you , has a story in which he talks of a man who goes to the house of a friend , and he knocks on the door , and a voice answers , &quot; &quot; Who &apos;s there ? &quot; &quot; &quot; It &apos;s me , &quot; or , more grammatically correctly , &quot; It is I , &quot; as we might say in English .
The voice says , &quot; &quot; Go away . &quot; &quot; After many years of training , of disciplining , of search and struggle , he comes back .
With much greater humility , he knocks again on the door .
The voice asks , &quot; &quot; Who is there ? &quot; &quot; He said , &quot; &quot; It is you , O heartbreaker . &quot; &quot; The door swings open , and the voice says , &quot; Come in , for there is no room in this house for two I &apos;s , &quot; — two capital I &apos;s , not these eyes — &quot; &quot; for two egos . &quot; &quot; And Rumi &apos;s stories are metaphors for the spiritual path .
In the presence of God , there is no room for more than one &quot; &quot; I , &quot; &quot; and that is the &quot; &quot; I &quot; &quot; of divinity .
In a teaching — called a &quot; &quot; hadith qudsi &quot; &quot; in our tradition — God says that , &quot; &quot; My servant , &quot; &quot; or &quot; &quot; My creature , my human creature , does not approach me by anything that is dearer to me than what I have asked them to do . &quot; &quot; And those of you who are employers know exactly what I mean .
You want your employees to do what you ask them to do , and if they &apos;ve done that , then they can do extra .
But don &apos;t ignore what you &apos;ve asked them to do .
&quot; &quot; And , &quot; &quot; God says , &quot; &quot; my servant continues to get nearer to me , by doing more of what I &apos;ve asked them to do &quot; &quot; — extra credit , we might call it — &quot; &quot; until I love him or love her .
And when I love my servant , &quot; &quot; God says , &quot; &quot; I become the eyes by which he or she sees , the ears by which he or she listens , the hand by which he or she grasps , and the foot by which he or she walks , and the heart by which he or she understands . &quot; &quot; It is this merging of our self with divinity that is the lesson and purpose of our spiritual path and all of our faith traditions .
Muslims regard Jesus as the master of Sufism , the greatest prophet and messenger who came to emphasize the spiritual path .
When he says , &quot; &quot; I am the spirit , and I am the way , &quot; &quot; and when the prophet Muhammad said , &quot; &quot; Whoever has seen me has seen God , &quot; &quot; it is because they became so much an instrument of God , they became part of God &apos;s team — so that God &apos;s will was manifest through them , and they were not acting from their own selves and their own egos .
Compassion on earth is given , it is in us .
All we have to do is to get our egos out of the way , get our egotism out of the way .
I &apos;m sure , probably all of you here , or certainly the very vast majority of you , have had what you might call a spiritual experience , a moment in your lives when , for a few seconds , a minute perhaps , the boundaries of your ego dissolved .
And at that minute , you felt at one with the universe — one with that jug of water , one with every human being , one with the Creator — and you felt you were in the presence of power , of awe , of the deepest love , the deepest sense of compassion and mercy that you have ever experienced in your lives .
That is a moment which is a gift of God to us — a gift when , for a moment , he lifts that boundary which makes us insist on &quot; &quot; I , I , I , me , me , me , &quot; &quot; and instead , like the person in Rumi &apos;s story , we say , &quot; &quot; Oh , this is all you .
This is all you . And this is all us .
And us , and I , and us are all part of you .
O , Creator ! O , the Objective ! The source of our being and the end of our journey , you are also the breaker of our hearts .
You are the one whom we should all be towards , for whose purpose we live , and for whose purpose we shall die , and for whose purpose we shall be resurrected again to account to God to what extent we have been compassionate beings . &quot; &quot; Our message today , and our purpose today , and those of you who are here today , and the purpose of this charter of compassion , is to remind .
For the Koran always urges us to remember , to remind each other , because the knowledge of truth is within every human being .
We know it all .
We have access to it all .
Jung may have called it &quot; &quot; the subconscious . &quot; &quot; Through our subconscious , in your dreams — the Koran calls our state of sleep &quot; &quot; the lesser death , &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; the temporary death &quot; &quot; — in our state of sleep we have dreams , we have visions , we travel even outside of our bodies , for many of us , and we see wonderful things .
We travel beyond the limitations of space as we know it , and beyond the limitations of time as we know it .
But all this is for us to glorify the name of the creator whose primary name is the compassionating , the compassionate .
God , Bokh , whatever name you want to call him with , Allah , Ram , Om , whatever the name might be through which you name or access the presence of divinity , it is the locus of absolute being , absolute love and mercy and compassion , and absolute knowledge and wisdom , what Hindus call &quot; &quot; satchidananda . &quot; &quot; The language differs , but the objective is the same .
Rumi has another story about three men , a Turk , an Arab and — and I forget the third person , but for my sake , it could be a Malay .
One is asking for angur — one is , say , an Englishman — one is asking for eneb , and one is asking for grapes .
And they have a fight and an argument because — &quot; &quot; I want grapes . &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; I want eneb . &quot; &quot; I want angur . &quot; &quot; — not knowing that the word that they &apos;re using refers to the same reality in different languages .
There &apos;s only one absolute reality by definition , one absolute being by definition , because absolute is , by definition , single , and absolute and singular .
There &apos;s this absolute concentration of being , the absolute concentration of consciousness , awareness , an absolute locus of compassion and love that defines the primary attributes of divinity .
And these should also be the primary attributes of what it means to be human .
For what defines humanity , perhaps biologically , is our physiology , but God defines humanity by our spirituality , by our nature .
And the Koran says , He speaks to the angels and says , &quot; &quot; When I have finished the formation of Adam from clay , and breathed into him of my spirit , then , fall in prostration to him . &quot; &quot; The angels prostrate , not before the human body , but before the human soul .
Why ? Because the soul , the human soul , embodies a piece of the divine breath , a piece of the divine soul .
This is also expressed in biblical vocabulary when we are taught that we were created in the divine image .
What is the imagery of God ?
The imagery of God is absolute being , absolute awareness and knowledge and wisdom and absolute compassion and love .
And therefore , for us to be human — in the greatest sense of what it means to be human , in the most joyful sense of what it means to be human — means that we too have to be proper stewards of the breath of divinity within us , and seek to perfect within ourselves the attribute of being , of being alive , of beingness ; the attribute of wisdom , of consciousness , of awareness ; and the attribute of being compassionate and loving beings .
This is what I understand from my faith tradition , and this is what I understand from my studies of other faith traditions , and this is the common platform on which we must all stand , and when we stand on this platform as such , I am convinced that we can make a wonderful world .
And I believe , personally , that we &apos;re on the verge and that , with the presence and help of people like you here , we can bring about the prophecy of Isaiah .
For he foretold of a period when people shall transform their swords into plowshares and will not learn war or make war anymore .
We have reached a stage in human history that we have no option : we must , we must lower our egos , control our egos — whether it is individual ego , personal ego , family ego , national ego — and let all be for the glorification of the one .
Thank you , and God bless you .
( Applause )
When I was first learning to meditate , the instruction was to simply pay attention to my breath , and when my mind wandered , to bring it back .
Sounded simple enough .
Yet I &apos;d sit on these silent retreats , sweating through T-shirts in the middle of winter .
The instruction was simple enough but I was missing something really important .
So why is it so hard to pay attention ?
Well , studies show that even when we &apos;re really trying to pay attention to something — like maybe this talk — at some point , about half of us will drift off into a daydream , or have this urge to check our Twitter feed .
So what &apos;s going on here ?
It turns out that we &apos;re fighting one of the most evolutionarily-conserved learning processes currently known in science , one that &apos;s conserved back to the most basic nervous systems known to man .
This reward-based learning process is called positive and negative reinforcement , and basically goes like this .
We see some food that looks good , our brain says , &quot; &quot; Calories ! ... Survival ! &quot; &quot; We eat the food , we taste it — it tastes good .
And especially with sugar , our bodies send a signal to our brain that says , &quot; Remember what you &apos;re eating and where you found it . &quot;
We lay down this context-dependent memory and learn to repeat the process next time .
See food , eat food , feel good , repeat .
Trigger , behavior , reward .
Simple , right ?
Well , after a while , our creative brains say , &quot; &quot; You know what ?
You can use this for more than just remembering where food is .
You know , next time you feel bad , why don &apos;t you try eating something good so you &apos;ll feel better ? &quot; &quot; We thank our brains for the great idea , try this and quickly learn that if we eat chocolate or ice cream when we &apos;re mad or sad , we feel better .
Same process , just a different trigger .
Instead of this hunger signal coming from our stomach , this emotional signal — feeling sad — triggers that urge to eat .
Maybe in our teenage years , we were a nerd at school , and we see those rebel kids outside smoking and we think , &quot; Hey , I want to be cool . &quot;
The Marlboro Man wasn &apos;t a dork , and that was no accident .
See cool , smoke to be cool , feel good . Repeat .
Trigger , behavior , reward .
And each time we do this , we learn to repeat the process and it becomes a habit .
So later , feeling stressed out triggers that urge to smoke a cigarette or to eat something sweet .
Now , with these same brain processes , we &apos;ve gone from learning to survive to literally killing ourselves with these habits .
Obesity and smoking are among the leading preventable causes of morbidity and mortality in the world .
So back to my breath .
What if instead of fighting our brains , or trying to force ourselves to pay attention , we instead tapped into this natural , reward-based learning process ...
but added a twist ?
What if instead we just got really curious about what was happening in our momentary experience ?
I &apos;ll give you an example .
In my lab , we studied whether mindfulness training could help people quit smoking .
Now , just like trying to force myself to pay attention to my breath , they could try to force themselves to quit smoking .
And the majority of them had tried this before and failed — on average , six times .
Now , with mindfulness training , we dropped the bit about forcing and instead focused on being curious .
In fact , we even told them to smoke .
What ? Yeah , we said , &quot; &quot; Go ahead and smoke , just be really curious about what it &apos;s like when you do . &quot; &quot; And what did they notice ?
Well here &apos;s an example from one of our smokers .
She said , &quot; &quot; Mindful smoking : smells like stinky cheese and tastes like chemicals , YUCK ! &quot; &quot; Now , she knew , cognitively that smoking was bad for her , that &apos;s why she joined our program .
What she discovered just by being curiously aware when she smoked was that smoking tastes like shit .
( Laughter ) Now , she moved from knowledge to wisdom .
She moved from knowing in her head that smoking was bad for her to knowing it in her bones , and the spell of smoking was broken .
She started to become disenchanted with her behavior .
Now , the prefrontal cortex , that youngest part of our brain from an evolutionary perspective , it understands on an intellectual level that we shouldn &apos;t smoke .
And it tries its hardest to help us change our behavior , to help us stop smoking , to help us stop eating that second , that third , that fourth cookie .
We call this cognitive control .
Unfortunately , this is also the first part of our brain that goes offline when we get stressed out , which isn &apos;t that helpful .
We &apos;re much more likely to do things like yell at our spouse or kids when we &apos;re stressed out or tired , even though we know it &apos;s not going to be helpful .
We just can &apos;t help ourselves .
When the prefrontal cortex goes offline , we fall back into our old habits , which is why this disenchantment is so important .
Seeing what we get from our habits helps us understand them at a deeper level — to know it in our bones so we don &apos;t have to force ourselves to hold back or restrain ourselves from behavior .
We &apos;re just less interested in doing it in the first place .
And this is what mindfulness is all about : Seeing really clearly what we get when we get caught up in our behaviors , becoming disenchanted on a visceral level and from this disenchanted stance , naturally letting go .
This isn &apos;t to say that , poof , magically we quit smoking .
But over time , as we learn to see more and more clearly the results of our actions , we let go of old habits and form new ones .
The paradox here is that mindfulness is just about being really interested in getting close and personal with what &apos;s actually happening in our bodies and minds from moment to moment .
This willingness to turn toward our experience rather than trying to make unpleasant cravings go away as quickly as possible .
And this willingness to turn toward our experience is supported by curiosity , which is naturally rewarding .
What does curiosity feel like ?
It feels good .
And what happens when we get curious ?
We start to notice that cravings are simply made up of body sensations — oh , there &apos;s tightness , there &apos;s tension , there &apos;s restlessness — and that these body sensations come and go .
These are bite-size pieces of experiences that we can manage from moment to moment rather than getting clobbered by this huge , scary craving that we choke on .
In other words , when we get curious , we step out of our old , fear-based , reactive habit patterns , and we step into being .
We become this inner scientist where we &apos;re eagerly awaiting that next data point .
Now , this might sound too simplistic to affect behavior .
But in one study , we found that mindfulness training was twice as good as gold standard therapy at helping people quit smoking .
So it actually works .
And when we studied the brains of experienced meditators , we found that parts of a neural network of self-referential processing called the default mode network were at play .
In contrast , when we let go — step out of the process just by being curiously aware of what &apos;s happening — this same brain region quiets down .
Now we &apos;re testing app and online-based mindfulness training programs that target these core mechanisms and , ironically , use the same technology that &apos;s driving us to distraction to help us step out of our unhealthy habit patterns of smoking , of stress eating and other addictive behaviors .
Now , remember that bit about context-dependent memory ?
We can deliver these tools to peoples &apos; fingertips in the contexts that matter most .
So we can help them tap into their inherent capacity to be curiously aware right when that urge to smoke or stress eat or whatever arises .
So if you don &apos;t smoke or stress eat , maybe the next time you feel this urge to check your email when you &apos;re bored , or you &apos;re trying to distract yourself from work , or maybe to compulsively respond to that text message when you &apos;re driving , see if you can tap into this natural capacity , just be curiously aware of what &apos;s happening in your body and mind in that moment .
It will just be another chance to perpetuate one of our endless and exhaustive habit loops ...
Instead of see text message , compulsively text back , feel a little bit better — notice the urge , get curious , feel the joy of letting go and repeat .
Thank you .
( Applause )
You might think there are many things that I can &apos;t do because I cannot see .
That &apos;s largely true .
Actually , I just needed to have a bit of help to come up to the stage .
But there is also a lot that I can do .
This is me rock climbing for the first time .
Actually , I love sports and I can play many sports , like swimming , skiing , skating , scuba diving , running and so on .
But there is one limitation : somebody needs to help me .
I want to be independent .
I lost my sight at the age of 14 in a swimming pool accident .
I was an active , independent teenager , and suddenly I became blind .
The hardest thing for me was losing my independence .
Things that until then seemed simple became almost impossible to do alone .
For example , one of my challenges was textbooks .
Back then , there were no personal computers , no Internet , no smartphones .
So I had to ask one of my two brothers to read me textbooks , and I had to create my own books in Braille .
Can you imagine ?
Of course , my brothers were not happy about it , and later , I noticed they were not there whenever I needed them .
( Laughter ) I think they tried to stay away from me .
I don &apos;t blame them .
I really wanted to be freed from relying on someone .
That became my strong desire to ignite innovation .
Jump ahead to the mid-1980s .
I got to know cutting-edge technologies and I thought to myself , how come there is no computer technology to create books in Braille ?
These amazing technologies must be able to also help people with limitations like myself .
That &apos;s the moment my innovation journey began .
I started developing digital book technologies , such as a digital Braille editor , digital Braille dictionary and a digital Braille library network .
Today , every student who is visually impaired can read textbooks , by using personal computers and mobile devices , in Braille or in voice .
This may not surprise you , since everyone now has digital books in their tablets in 2015 .
But Braille went digital many years before digital books , already in the late 1980s , almost 30 years ago .
Strong and specific needs of the blind people made this opportunity to create digital books way back then .
And this is actually not the first time this happened , because history shows us accessibility ignites innovation .
The telephone was invented while developing a communication tool for hearing impaired people .
Some keyboards were also invented to help people with disabilities .
Now I &apos;m going to give you another example from my own life .
In the &apos; 90s , people around me started talking about the Internet and web browsing .
I remember the first time I went on the web .
I was astonished .
I could access newspapers at any time and every day .
I could even search for any information by myself .
I desperately wanted to help the blind people have access to the Internet , and I found ways to render the web into synthesized voice , which dramatically simplified the user interface .
This led me to develop the Home Page Reader in 1997 , first in Japanese and later , translated into 11 languages .
When I developed the Home Page Reader , I got many comments from users .
One that I strongly remember said , &quot; For me , the Internet is a small window to the world . &quot;
It was a revolutionary moment for the blind .
The cyber world became accessible , and this technology that we created for the blind has many uses , way beyond what I imagined .
It can help drivers listen to their emails or it can help you listen to a recipe while cooking .
Today , I am more independent , but it is still not enough .
For example , when I approached the stage just now , I needed assistance .
My goal is to come up here independently .
And not just here .
My goal is to be able to travel and do things that are simple to you .
OK , now let me show you the latest technologies .
This is a smartphone app that we are working on .
EV : Nick is approaching . Looks so happy .
( Laughter ) CA : Where are you going ? You look so happy .
Nick : Oh — well , my paper just got accepted .
CA : That &apos;s great ! Congratulations .
Nick : Thanks . Wait — how &apos;d you know it was me , and that I look happy ?
( Chieko and Nick laugh ) Man : Hi .
( Laughter ) CA : Oh ... hi .
EV : Potato chips .
EV : Dark chocolate with almonds .
( Laughter ) EV : Approaching .
EV : You arrived .
CA : Now ...
( Applause ) Thank you .
So now the app navigates me by analyzing beacon signals and smartphone sensors and permits me to move around indoor and outdoor environments all by myself .
But the computer vision part that showed who is approaching , in which mood — we are still working on that part .
And recognizing facial expressions is very important for me to be social .
So now the fusions of technologies are ready to help me see the real world .
We call this cognitive assistance .
It understands our surrounding world and whispers to me in voice or sends a vibration to my fingers .
Cognitive assistance will augment missing or weakened abilities — in other words , our five senses .
This technology is only in an early stage , but eventually , I &apos;ll be able to find a classroom on campus , enjoy window shopping or find a nice restaurant while walking along a street .
It will be amazing if I can find you on the street before you notice me .
It will become my best buddy , and yours .
So , this really is a great challenge .
It is a challenge that needs collaboration , which is why we are creating an open community to accelerate research activities .
Just this morning , we announced the open-source fundamental technologies you just saw in the video .
The frontier is the real world .
The blind community is exploring this technical frontier and the pathfinder .
I hope to work with you to explore the new era , and the next time that I &apos;m on this stage , through technology and innovation , I will be able to walk up here all by myself .
Thank you so much .
( Applause )
I want you to imagine what a breakthrough this was for women who were victims of violence in the 1980s .
They would come into the emergency room with what the police would call &quot; &quot; a lovers &apos; quarrel , &quot; &quot; and I would see a woman who was beaten , I would see a broken nose and a fractured wrist and swollen eyes .
And as activists , we would take our Polaroid camera , we would take her picture , we would wait 90 seconds , and we would give her the photograph .
And she would then have the evidence she needed to go to court .
We were making what was invisible visible .
I &apos;ve been doing this for 30 years .
I &apos;ve been part of a social movement that has been working on ending violence against women and children .
And for all those years , I &apos;ve had an absolutely passionate and sometimes not popular belief that this violence is not inevitable , that it is learned , and if it &apos;s learned , it can be un-learned , and it can be prevented .
( Applause ) Why do I believe this ?
Because it &apos;s true .
It is absolutely true .
Between 1993 and 2010 , domestic violence among adult women in the United States has gone down by 64 percent , and that is great news .
( Applause ) Sixty-four percent . Now , how did we get there ?
Our eyes were wide open .
Thirty years ago , women were beaten , they were stalked , they were raped , and no one talked about it .
There was no justice .
And as an activist , that was not good enough .
And so step one on this journey is we organized , and we created this extraordinary underground network of amazing women who opened shelters , and if they didn &apos;t open a shelter , they opened their home so that women and children could be safe .
And you know what else we did ?
We had bake sales , we had car washes , and we did everything we could do to fundraise , and then at one point we said , you know , it &apos;s time that we went to the federal government and asked them to pay for these extraordinary services that are saving people &apos;s lives .
Right ? ( Applause ) And so , step number two , we knew we needed to change the laws .
And so we went to Washington , and we lobbied for the first piece of legislation .
And I remember walking through the halls of the U.S. Capitol , and I was in my 30s , and my life had purpose , and I couldn &apos;t imagine that anybody would ever challenge this important piece of legislation .
I was probably 30 and naive .
But I heard about a congressman who had a very , very different point of view .
Do you know what he called this important piece of legislation ?
He called it the Take the Fun Out of Marriage Act .
The Take the Fun Out of Marriage Act .
Ladies and gentlemen , that was in 1984 in the United States , and I wish I had Twitter .
( Laughter ) Ten years later , after lots of hard work , we finally passed the Violence Against Women Act , which is a life-changing act that has saved so many lives . ( Applause ) Thank you .
I was proud to be part of that work , and it changed the laws and it put millions of dollars into local communities .
And you know what else it did ? It collected data .
And I have to tell you , I &apos;m passionate about data .
In fact , I am a data nerd .
I &apos;m sure there are a lot of data nerds here .
I am a data nerd , and the reason for that is I want to make sure that if we spend a dollar , that the program works , and if it doesn &apos;t work , we should change the plan .
And I also want to say one other thing : We are not going to solve this problem by building more jails or by even building more shelters .
It is about economic empowerment for women , it is about healing kids who are hurt , and it is about prevention with a capital P.
And so , step number three on this journey : We know , if we &apos;re going to keep making this progress , we &apos;re going to have to turn up the volume , we &apos;re going to have to increase the visibility , and we &apos;re going to have to engage the public .
And so knowing that , we went to the Advertising Council , and we asked them to help us build a public education campaign .
And we looked around the world to Canada and Australia and Brazil and parts of Africa , and we took this knowledge and we built the first national public education campaign called There &apos;s No Excuse for Domestic Violence .
Take a look at one of our spots .
( Video ) Man : Where &apos;s dinner ?
Woman : Well , I thought you &apos;d be home a couple hours ago , and I put everything away , so — Man : What is this ? Pizza . Woman : If you had just called me , I would have known — Man : Dinner ? Dinner ready is a pizza ? Woman : Honey , please don &apos;t be so loud .
Please don &apos;t — Let go of me !
Man : Get in the kitchen ! Woman : No ! Help !
Man : You want to see what hurts ? ( Slaps woman ) That &apos;s what hurts ! That &apos;s what hurts ! ( Breaking glass ) Woman : Help me !
&#91; &quot; &quot; Children have to sit by and watch . What &apos;s your excuse ? &quot; &quot; &#93; Esta Soler : As we were in the process of releasing this campaign , O.J. Simpson was arrested for the murder of his wife and her friend .
We learned that he had a long history of domestic violence .
The media became fixated .
The story of domestic violence went from the back page , but actually from the no-page , to the front page .
Our ads blanketed the airwaves , and women , for the first time , started to tell their stories .
Movements are about moments , and we seized this moment .
And let me just put this in context .
Before 1980 , do you have any idea how many articles were in The New York Times on domestic violence ?
I &apos;ll tell you : 158 .
And in the 2000s , over 7,000 .
We were obviously making a difference .
But we were still missing a critical element .
So , step four : We needed to engage men .
We couldn &apos;t solve this problem with 50 percent of the population on the sidelines .
And I already told you I &apos;m a data nerd .
National polling told us that men felt indicted and not invited into this conversation .
So we wondered , how can we include men ?
How can we get men to talk about violence against women and girls ?
And a male friend of mine pulled me aside and he said , &quot; &quot; You want men to talk about violence against women and girls . Men don &apos;t talk . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) I apologize to the men in the audience .
I know you do .
But he said , &quot; &quot; Do you know what they do do ?
They do talk to their kids .
They talk to their kids as parents , as coaches . &quot; &quot; And that &apos;s what we did .
We met men where they were at and we built a program .
And then we had this one event that stays in my heart forever where a basketball coach was talking to a room filled with male athletes and men from all walks of life .
And he was talking about the importance of coaching boys into men and changing the culture of the locker room and giving men the tools to have healthy relationships .
And all of a sudden , he looked at the back of the room , and he saw his daughter , and he called out his daughter &apos;s name , Michaela , and he said , &quot; &quot; Michaela , come up here . &quot; &quot; And she &apos;s nine years old , and she was kind of shy , and she got up there , and he said , &quot; &quot; Sit down next to me . &quot; &quot; She sat right down next to him .
He gave her this big hug , and he said , &quot; &quot; People ask me why I do this work .
I do this work because I &apos;m her dad , and I don &apos;t want anyone ever to hurt her . &quot; &quot; And as a parent , I get it .
I get it , knowing that there are so many sexual assaults on college campuses that are so widespread and so under-reported .
We &apos;ve done a lot for adult women .
We &apos;ve got to do a better job for our kids .
We just do . We have to . ( Applause ) We &apos;ve come a long way since the days of the Polaroid .
Technology has been our friend .
The mobile phone is a global game changer for the empowerment of women , and Facebook and Twitter and Google and YouTube and all the social media helps us organize and tell our story in a powerful way .
And so those of you in this audience who have helped build those applications and those platforms , as an organizer , I say , thank you very much .
Really . I clap for you .
( Applause ) I &apos;m the daughter of a man who joined one club in his life , the Optimist Club .
You can &apos;t make that one up .
And it is his spirit and his optimism that is in my DNA .
I have been doing this work for over 30 years , and I am convinced , now more than ever , in the capacity of human beings to change .
I believe we can bend the arc of human history toward compassion and equality , and I also fundamentally believe and passionately believe that this violence does not have to be part of the human condition .
And I ask you , stand with us as we create futures without violence for women and girls and men and boys everywhere .
Thank you very much .
( Applause )
What is going to be the future of learning ?
I do have a plan , but in order for me to tell you what that plan is , I need to tell you a little story , which kind of sets the stage .
I tried to look at where did the kind of learning we do in schools , where did it come from ?
And you can look far back into the past , but if you look at present-day schooling the way it is , it &apos;s quite easy to figure out where it came from .
It came from about 300 years ago , and it came from the last and the biggest of the empires on this planet . &#91; &quot; &quot; The British Empire &quot; &quot; &#93; Imagine trying to run the show , trying to run the entire planet , without computers , without telephones , with data handwritten on pieces of paper , and traveling by ships .
But the Victorians actually did it .
What they did was amazing .
They created a global computer made up of people .
It &apos;s still with us today .
It &apos;s called the bureaucratic administrative machine .
In order to have that machine running , you need lots and lots of people .
They made another machine to produce those people : the school .
The schools would produce the people who would then become parts of the bureaucratic administrative machine .
They must be identical to each other .
They must know three things : They must have good handwriting , because the data is handwritten ; they must be able to read ; and they must be able to do multiplication , division , addition and subtraction in their head .
They must be so identical that you could pick one up from New Zealand and ship them to Canada and he would be instantly functional .
The Victorians were great engineers .
They engineered a system that was so robust that it &apos;s still with us today , continuously producing identical people for a machine that no longer exists .
The empire is gone , so what are we doing with that design that produces these identical people , and what are we going to do next if we ever are going to do anything else with it ?
&#91; &quot; &quot; Schools as we know them are obsolete &quot; &quot; &#93; So that &apos;s a pretty strong comment there .
I said schools as we know them now , they &apos;re obsolete .
I &apos;m not saying they &apos;re broken .
It &apos;s quite fashionable to say that the education system &apos;s broken .
It &apos;s not broken . It &apos;s wonderfully constructed .
It &apos;s just that we don &apos;t need it anymore . It &apos;s outdated .
What are the kind of jobs that we have today ?
Well , the clerks are the computers .
They &apos;re there in thousands in every office .
And you have people who guide those computers to do their clerical jobs .
Those people don &apos;t need to be able to write beautifully by hand .
They don &apos;t need to be able to multiply numbers in their heads .
They do need to be able to read .
In fact , they need to be able to read discerningly .
Well , that &apos;s today , but we don &apos;t even know what the jobs of the future are going to look like .
We know that people will work from wherever they want , whenever they want , in whatever way they want .
How is present-day schooling going to prepare them for that world ?
Well , I bumped into this whole thing completely by accident .
I used to teach people how to write computer programs in New Delhi , 14 years ago .
And right next to where I used to work , there was a slum .
And I used to think , how on Earth are those kids ever going to learn to write computer programs ?
Or should they not ?
At the same time , we also had lots of parents , rich people , who had computers , and who used to tell me , &quot; &quot; You know , my son , I think he &apos;s gifted , because he does wonderful things with computers .
And my daughter — oh , surely she is extra-intelligent . &quot; &quot; And so on . So I suddenly figured that , how come all the rich people are having these extraordinarily gifted children ?
( Laughter ) What did the poor do wrong ?
I made a hole in the boundary wall of the slum next to my office , and stuck a computer inside it just to see what would happen if I gave a computer to children who never would have one , didn &apos;t know any English , didn &apos;t know what the Internet was .
The children came running in .
It was three feet off the ground , and they said , &quot; &quot; What is this ? &quot; &quot; And I said , &quot; &quot; Yeah , it &apos;s , I don &apos;t know . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) They said , &quot; &quot; Why have you put it there ? &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; Just like that . &quot; &quot; And they said , &quot; &quot; Can we touch it ? &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; If you wish to . &quot; &quot; And I went away .
About eight hours later , we found them browsing and teaching each other how to browse .
So I said , &quot; &quot; Well that &apos;s impossible , because — How is it possible ? They don &apos;t know anything . &quot; &quot; My colleagues said , &quot; &quot; No , it &apos;s a simple solution .
One of your students must have been passing by , showed them how to use the mouse . &quot; &quot; So I said , &quot; &quot; Yeah , that &apos;s possible . &quot; &quot; So I repeated the experiment . I went 300 miles out of Delhi into a really remote village where the chances of a passing software development engineer was very little . ( Laughter ) I repeated the experiment there .
There was no place to stay , so I stuck my computer in , I went away , came back after a couple of months , found kids playing games on it .
When they saw me , they said , &quot; We want a faster processor and a better mouse . &quot;
( Laughter ) So I said , &quot; &quot; How on Earth do you know all this ? &quot; &quot; And they said something very interesting to me .
In an irritated voice , they said , &quot; &quot; You &apos;ve given us a machine that works only in English , so we had to teach ourselves English in order to use it . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) That &apos;s the first time , as a teacher , that I had heard the word &quot; &quot; teach ourselves &quot; &quot; said so casually .
Here &apos;s a short glimpse from those years .
That &apos;s the first day at the Hole in the Wall .
On your right is an eight-year-old .
To his left is his student . She &apos;s six .
And he &apos;s teaching her how to browse .
Then onto other parts of the country , I repeated this over and over again , getting exactly the same results that we were .
&#91; &quot; &quot; Hole in the wall film - 1999 &quot; &quot; &#93; An eight-year-old telling his elder sister what to do .
And finally a girl explaining in Marathi what it is , and said , &quot; &quot; There &apos;s a processor inside . &quot; &quot; So I started publishing .
I published everywhere . I wrote down and measured everything , and I said , in nine months , a group of children left alone with a computer in any language will reach the same standard as an office secretary in the West .
I &apos;d seen it happen over and over and over again .
But I was curious to know , what else would they do if they could do this much ?
I started experimenting with other subjects , among them , for example , pronunciation .
There &apos;s one community of children in southern India whose English pronunciation is really bad , and they needed good pronunciation because that would improve their jobs .
I gave them a speech-to-text engine in a computer , and I said , &quot; &quot; Keep talking into it until it types what you say . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) They did that , and watch a little bit of this .
Computer : Nice to meet you.Child : Nice to meet you .
Sugata Mitra : The reason I ended with the face of this young lady over there is because I suspect many of you know her .
She has now joined a call center in Hyderabad and may have tortured you about your credit card bills in a very clear English accent .
So then people said , well , how far will it go ?
I decided I would destroy my own argument by creating an absurd proposition .
I made a hypothesis , a ridiculous hypothesis .
Tamil is a south Indian language , and I said , can Tamil-speaking children in a south Indian village learn the biotechnology of DNA replication in English from a streetside computer ?
And I said , I &apos;ll measure them . They &apos;ll get a zero .
I &apos;ll spend a couple of months , I &apos;ll leave it for a couple of months , I &apos;ll go back , they &apos;ll get another zero .
I &apos;ll go back to the lab and say , we need teachers .
I found a village . It was called Kallikuppam in southern India .
I put in Hole in the Wall computers there , downloaded all kinds of stuff from the Internet about DNA replication , most of which I didn &apos;t understand .
The children came rushing , said , &quot; &quot; What &apos;s all this ? &quot; &quot; So I said , &quot; &quot; It &apos;s very topical , very important . But it &apos;s all in English . &quot; &quot; So they said , &quot; &quot; How can we understand such big English words and diagrams and chemistry ? &quot; &quot; So by now , I had developed a new pedagogical method , so I applied that . I said , &quot; &quot; I haven &apos;t the foggiest idea . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) &quot; And anyway , I am going away . &quot; ( Laughter )
So I left them for a couple of months .
They &apos;d got a zero . I gave them a test .
I came back after two months and the children trooped in and said , &quot; &quot; We &apos;ve understood nothing . &quot; &quot; So I said , &quot; &quot; Well , what did I expect ? &quot; &quot; So I said , &quot; &quot; Okay , but how long did it take you before you decided that you can &apos;t understand anything ? &quot; &quot; So they said , &quot; &quot; We haven &apos;t given up .
We look at it every single day . &quot; &quot; So I said , &quot; &quot; What ? You don &apos;t understand these screens and you keep staring at it for two months ? What for ? &quot; &quot; So a little girl who you see just now , she raised her hand , and she says to me in broken Tamil and English , she said , &quot; &quot; Well , apart from the fact that improper replication of the DNA molecule causes disease , we haven &apos;t understood anything else . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So I tested them .
I got an educational impossibility , zero to 30 percent in two months in the tropical heat with a computer under the tree in a language they didn &apos;t know doing something that &apos;s a decade ahead of their time .
Absurd . But I had to follow the Victorian norm .
Thirty percent is a fail .
How do I get them to pass ? I have to get them 20 more marks .
I couldn &apos;t find a teacher . What I did find was a friend that they had , a 22-year-old girl who was an accountant and she played with them all the time .
So I asked this girl , &quot; &quot; Can you help them ? &quot; &quot; So she says , &quot; &quot; Absolutely not .
I didn &apos;t have science in school . I have no idea what they &apos;re doing under that tree all day long . I can &apos;t help you . &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; I &apos;ll tell you what . Use the method of the grandmother . &quot; &quot; So she says , &quot; &quot; What &apos;s that ? &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; Stand behind them .
Whenever they do anything , you just say , &apos; Well , wow , I mean , how did you do that ?
What &apos;s the next page ? Gosh , when I was your age , I could have never done that . &apos; You know what grannies do . &quot; &quot; So she did that for two more months .
The scores jumped to 50 percent .
Kallikuppam had caught up with my control school in New Delhi , a rich private school with a trained biotechnology teacher .
When I saw that graph I knew there is a way to level the playing field .
Here &apos;s Kallikuppam .
( Children speaking ) Neurons ... communication .
I got the camera angle wrong . That one is just amateur stuff , but what she was saying , as you could make out , was about neurons , with her hands were like that , and she was saying neurons communicate .
At 12 .
So what are jobs going to be like ?
Well , we know what they &apos;re like today .
What &apos;s learning going to be like ? We know what it &apos;s like today , children pouring over with their mobile phones on the one hand and then reluctantly going to school to pick up their books with their other hand .
What will it be tomorrow ?
Could it be that we don &apos;t need to go to school at all ?
Could it be that , at the point in time when you need to know something , you can find out in two minutes ?
Could it be — a devastating question , a question that was framed for me by Nicholas Negroponte — could it be that we are heading towards or maybe in a future where knowing is obsolete ?
But that &apos;s terrible . We are homo sapiens .
Knowing , that &apos;s what distinguishes us from the apes .
But look at it this way .
It took nature 100 million years to make the ape stand up and become Homo sapiens .
It took us only 10,000 to make knowing obsolete .
What an achievement that is .
But we have to integrate that into our own future .
Encouragement seems to be the key .
If you look at Kuppam , if you look at all of the experiments that I did , it was simply saying , &quot; &quot; Wow , &quot; &quot; saluting learning .
There is evidence from neuroscience .
The reptilian part of our brain , which sits in the center of our brain , when it &apos;s threatened , it shuts down everything else , it shuts down the prefrontal cortex , the parts which learn , it shuts all of that down .
We take our children , we make them shut their brains down , and then we say , &quot; &quot; Perform . &quot; &quot; Why did they create a system like that ?
Because it was needed .
There was an age in the Age of Empires when you needed those people who can survive under threat .
When you &apos;re standing in a trench all alone , if you could have survived , you &apos;re okay , you &apos;ve passed .
If you didn &apos;t , you failed .
But the Age of Empires is gone .
What happens to creativity in our age ?
We need to shift that balance back from threat to pleasure .
I came back to England looking for British grandmothers .
I put out notices in papers saying , if you are a British grandmother , if you have broadband and a web camera , can you give me one hour of your time per week for free ?
I got 200 in the first two weeks .
I know more British grandmothers than anyone in the universe . ( Laughter ) They &apos;re called the Granny Cloud .
The Granny Cloud sits on the Internet .
If there &apos;s a child in trouble , we beam a Gran .
She goes on over Skype and she sorts things out .
I &apos;ve seen them do it from a village called Diggles in northwestern England , deep inside a village in Tamil Nadu , India , 6,000 miles away .
She does it with only one age-old gesture .
&quot; Shhh . &quot;
Okay ?
Watch this .
Grandmother : You can &apos;t catch me . You say it . You can &apos;t catch me .
Children : You can &apos;t catch me . Grandmother : I &apos;m the Gingerbread Man.Children : I &apos;m the Gingerbread Man . Grandmother : Well done ! Very good . SM : So what &apos;s happening here ? I think what we need to look at is
we need to look at learning as the product of educational self-organization .
If you allow the educational process to self-organize , then learning emerges .
It &apos;s not about making learning happen .
It &apos;s about letting it happen .
The teacher sets the process in motion and then she stands back in awe and watches as learning happens .
I think that &apos;s what all this is pointing at .
But how will we know ? How will we come to know ?
Well , I intend to build these Self-Organized Learning Environments .
They are basically broadband , collaboration and encouragement put together .
I &apos;ve tried this in many , many schools .
It &apos;s been tried all over the world , and teachers sort of stand back and say , &quot; &quot; It just happens by itself ? &quot; &quot; And I said , &quot; &quot; Yeah , it happens by itself . &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; How did you know that ? &quot; &quot; I said , &quot; &quot; You won &apos;t believe the children who told me and where they &apos;re from . &quot; &quot; Here &apos;s a SOLE in action .
( Children talking ) This one is in England .
He maintains law and order , because remember , there &apos;s no teacher around .
Girl : The total number of electrons is not equal to the total number of protons — SM : Australia Girl : — giving it a net positive or negative electrical charge .
The net charge on an ion is equal to the number of protons in the ion minus the number of electrons .
SM : A decade ahead of her time .
So SOLEs , I think we need a curriculum of big questions .
You already heard about that . You know what that means .
There was a time when Stone Age men and women used to sit and look up at the sky and say , &quot; What are those twinkling lights ? &quot;
They built the first curriculum , but we &apos;ve lost sight of those wondrous questions .
We &apos;ve brought it down to the tangent of an angle .
But that &apos;s not sexy enough .
The way you would put it to a nine-year-old is to say , &quot; &quot; If a meteorite was coming to hit the Earth , how would you figure out if it was going to or not ? &quot; &quot; And if he says , &quot; &quot; Well , what ? how ? &quot; &quot; you say , &quot; &quot; There &apos;s a magic word . It &apos;s called the tangent of an angle , &quot; &quot; and leave him alone . He &apos;ll figure it out .
So here are a couple of images from SOLEs .
I &apos;ve tried incredible , incredible questions — &quot; &quot; When did the world begin ? How will it end ? &quot; &quot; — to nine-year-olds .
This one is about what happens to the air we breathe .
This is done by children without the help of any teacher .
The teacher only raises the question , and then stands back and admires the answer .
So what &apos;s my wish ?
My wish is that we design the future of learning .
We don &apos;t want to be spare parts for a great human computer , do we ?
So we need to design a future for learning .
And I &apos;ve got to — hang on , I &apos;ve got to get this wording exactly right , because , you know , it &apos;s very important .
My wish is to help design a future of learning by supporting children all over the world to tap into their wonder and their ability to work together .
Help me build this school .
It will be called the School in the Cloud .
It will be a school where children go on these intellectual adventures driven by the big questions which their mediators put in .
The way I want to do this is to build a facility where I can study this .
It &apos;s a facility which is practically unmanned .
There &apos;s only one granny who manages health and safety .
The rest of it &apos;s from the cloud .
The lights are turned on and off by the cloud , etc . , etc . , everything &apos;s done from the cloud .
But I want you for another purpose .
You can do Self-Organized Learning Environments at home , in the school , outside of school , in clubs .
It &apos;s very easy to do . There &apos;s a great document produced by TED which tells you how to do it .
If you would please , please do it across all five continents and send me the data , then I &apos;ll put it all together , move it into the School of Clouds , and create the future of learning .
That &apos;s my wish .
And just one last thing .
I &apos;ll take you to the top of the Himalayas .
At 12,000 feet , where the air is thin , I once built two Hole in the Wall computers , and the children flocked there .
And there was this little girl who was following me around .
And I said to her , &quot; &quot; You know , I want to give a computer to everybody , every child .
I don &apos;t know , what should I do ? &quot; &quot; And I was trying to take a picture of her quietly .
She suddenly raised her hand like this , and said to me , &quot; Get on with it . &quot;
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) I think it was good advice .
I &apos;ll follow her advice . I &apos;ll stop talking .
( Applause ) Thank you . Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you very much . Wow . ( Applause )
I &apos;ve been playing TED for nearly a decade , and I &apos;ve very rarely played any new songs of my own .
And that was largely because there weren &apos;t any .
( Laughter ) So I &apos;ve been busy with a couple of projects , and one of them was this : The Nutmeg .
A 1930s ship &apos;s lifeboat , which I &apos;ve been restoring in the garden of my beach house in England .
And , so now , when the polar ice caps melt , my recording studio will rise up like an ark , and I &apos;ll float off into the drowned world like a character from a J.G. Ballard novel .
During the day , the Nutmeg collects energy from solar panels on the roof of the wheelhouse , and from a 450 watt turbine up the mast .
So that when it gets dark , I &apos;ve got plenty of power .
And I can light up the Nutmeg like a beacon .
And so I go in there until the early hours of the morning , and I work on new songs .
I &apos;d like to play to you guys , if you &apos;re willing to be the first audience to hear it .
( Applause ) It &apos;s about Billie Holiday .
And it appears that , some night in 1947 she left her physical space and was missing all night , until she reappeared in the morning .
But I know where she was .
She was with me on my lifeboat .
And she was hot .
( Music ) ♫ Billie crept softly ♫ ♫ into my waking arms ♫ ♫ warm like a sip of sour mash ♫ ♫ Strange fruit for ♫ ♫ a sweet hunk of trash ♫ ♫ Panic at the stage door ♫ ♫ of Carnegie Hall ♫ ♫ &quot; &quot; Famous Jazz Singer Gone AWOL &quot; &quot; ♫ ♫ Must have left the building ♫ ♫ body and soul ♫ ♫ On a creaky ♫ ♫ piano stool tonight ♫ ♫ as the moon is my ♫ ♫ only witness ♫ ♫ She was breathing ♫ ♫ in my ear ♫ ♫ &quot; &quot; This time it &apos;s love &quot; &quot; ♫
♫ But love is a loaded pistol ♫ ♫ By daybreak she &apos;s gone ♫ ♫ Over the frozen river , home ♫ ♫ Me and Johnny Walker ♫ ♫ See in the new age ♫ ♫ alone ♫ ♫ Stay with me ♫ ♫ again tonight ♫ ♫ Billie , time , ♫ ♫ time is a wily trickster ♫ ♫ Still an echo ♫ ♫ in my heart says , ♫ ♫ &quot; &quot; This time it &apos;s love &quot; &quot; ♫ ( Applause )
All right , so let &apos;s take four subjects that obviously go together : big data , tattoos , immortality and the Greeks .
Right ?
Now , the issue about tattoos is that , without a word , tattoos really do shout .
&#91; Beautiful &#93; &#91; Intriguing &#93; So you don &apos;t have to say a lot .
&#91; Allegiance &#93; &#91; Very intimate &#93; &#91; Serious mistakes &#93; ( Laughter ) And tattoos tell you a lot of stories .
If I can ask an indiscreet question , how many of you have tattoos ?
A few , but not most .
What happens if Facebook , Google , Twitter , LinkedIn , cell phones , GPS , Foursquare , Yelp , Travel Advisor , all these things you deal with every day turn out to be electronic tattoos ?
And what if they provide as much information about who and what you are as any tattoo ever would ?
What &apos;s ended up happening over the past few decades is the kind of coverage that you had as a head of state or as a great celebrity is now being applied to you every day by all these people who are Tweeting , blogging , following you , watching your credit scores and what you do to yourself .
And electronic tattoos also shout .
And as you &apos;re thinking of the consequences of that , it &apos;s getting really hard to hide from this stuff , among other things , because it &apos;s not just the electronic tattoos , it &apos;s facial recognition that &apos;s getting really good .
So you can take a picture with an iPhone and get all the names , although , again , sometimes it does make mistakes . ( Laughter ) But that means you can take a typical bar scene like this , take a picture , say , of this guy right here , get the name , and download all the records before you utter a word or speak to somebody , because everybody turns out to be absolutely plastered by electronic tattoos .
And so there &apos;s companies like face.com that now have about 18 billion faces online .
Here &apos;s what happened to this company .
&#91; Company sold to Facebook , June 18 , 2012 ... &#93; There are other companies that will place a camera like this — this has nothing to do with Facebook — they take your picture , they tie it to the social media , they figure out you really like to wear black dresses , so maybe the person in the store comes up and says , &quot; &quot; Hey , we &apos;ve got five black dresses that would just look great on you . &quot; &quot; So what if Andy was wrong ?
Here &apos;s Andy &apos;s theory .
&#91; In the future , everybody will be world famous for 15 minutes . &#93; What if we flip this ?
What if you &apos;re only going to be anonymous for 15 minutes ? ( Laughter ) Well , then , because of electronic tattoos , maybe all of you and all of us are very close to immortality , because these tattoos will live far longer than our bodies will .
And if that &apos;s true , then what we want to do is we want to go through four lessons from the Greeks and one lesson from a Latin American .
Why the Greeks ?
Well , the Greeks thought about what happens when gods and humans and immortality mix for a long time .
So lesson number one : Sisyphus .
Remember ? He did a horrible thing , condemned for all time to roll this rock up , it would roll back down , roll back up , roll back down .
It &apos;s a little like your reputation .
Once you get that electronic tattoo , you &apos;re going to be rolling up and down for a long time , so as you go through this stuff , just be careful what you post .
Myth number two : Orpheus , wonderful guy , charming to be around , great partier , great singer , loses his beloved , charms his way into the underworld , only person to charm his way into the underworld , charms the gods of the underworld , they release his beauty on the condition he never look at her until they &apos;re out .
So he &apos;s walking out and walking out and walking out and he just can &apos;t resist . He looks at her , loses her forever .
With all this data out here , it might be a good idea not to look too far into the past of those you love .
Lesson number three : Atalanta .
Greatest runner . She would challenge anybody .
If you won , she would marry you .
If you lost , you died .
How did Hippomenes beat her ?
Well , he had all these wonderful little golden apples , and she &apos;d run ahead , and he &apos;d roll a little golden apple .
She &apos;d run ahead , and he &apos;d roll a little golden apple .
She kept getting distracted . He eventually won the race .
Just remember the purpose as all these little golden apples come and reach you and you want to post about them or tweet about them or send a late-night message .
And then , of course , there &apos;s Narcissus .
Nobody here would ever be accused or be familiar with Narcissus .
( Laughter ) But as you &apos;re thinking about Narcissus , just don &apos;t fall in love with your own reflection .
Last lesson , from a Latin American : This is the great poet Jorge Luis Borges .
When he was threatened by the thugs of the Argentine military junta , he came back and said , &quot; &quot; Oh , come on , how else can you threaten , other than with death ? &quot; &quot; The interesting thing , the original thing , would be to threaten somebody with immortality .
And that , of course , is what we are all now threatened with today because of electronic tattoos .
Thank you .
( Applause )
Where do you come from ?
It &apos;s such a simple question , but these days , of course , simple questions bring ever more complicated answers .
People are always asking me where I come from , and they &apos;re expecting me to say India , and they &apos;re absolutely right insofar as 100 percent of my blood and ancestry does come from India .
Except , I &apos;ve never lived one day of my life there .
I can &apos;t speak even one word of its more than 22,000 dialects .
So I don &apos;t think I &apos;ve really earned the right to call myself an Indian .
And if &quot; &quot; Where do you come from ? &quot; &quot; means &quot; &quot; Where were you born and raised and educated ? &quot; &quot; then I &apos;m entirely of that funny little country known as England , except I left England as soon as I completed my undergraduate education , and all the time I was growing up , I was the only kid in all my classes who didn &apos;t begin to look like the classic English heroes represented in our textbooks . And if &quot; &quot; Where do you come from ? &quot; &quot;
means &quot; &quot; Where do you pay your taxes ?
Where do you see your doctor and your dentist ? &quot; &quot; then I &apos;m very much of the United States , and I have been for 48 years now , since I was a really small child .
Except , for many of those years , I &apos;ve had to carry around this funny little pink card with green lines running through my face identifying me as a permanent alien .
I do actually feel more alien the longer I live there .
( Laughter ) And if &quot; &quot; Where do you come from ? &quot; &quot; means &quot; &quot; Which place goes deepest inside you and where do you try to spend most of your time ? &quot; &quot; then I &apos;m Japanese , because I &apos;ve been living as much as I can for the last 25 years in Japan .
Except , all of those years I &apos;ve been there on a tourist visa , and I &apos;m fairly sure not many Japanese would want to consider me one of them .
And I say all this just to stress how very old-fashioned and straightforward my background is , because when I go to Hong Kong or Sydney or Vancouver , most of the kids I meet are much more international and multi-cultured than I am .
And they have one home associated with their parents , but another associated with their partners , a third connected maybe with the place where they happen to be , a fourth connected with the place they dream of being , and many more besides .
And their whole life will be spent taking pieces of many different places and putting them together into a stained glass whole .
Home for them is really a work in progress .
It &apos;s like a project on which they &apos;re constantly adding upgrades and improvements and corrections .
And for more and more of us , home has really less to do with a piece of soil than , you could say , with a piece of soul .
If somebody suddenly asks me , &quot; &quot; Where &apos;s your home ? &quot; &quot; I think about my sweetheart or my closest friends or the songs that travel with me wherever I happen to be .
And I &apos;d always felt this way , but it really came home to me , as it were , some years ago when I was climbing up the stairs in my parents &apos; house in California , and I looked through the living room windows and I saw that we were encircled by 70-foot flames , one of those wildfires that regularly tear through the hills of California and many other such places .
And three hours later , that fire had reduced my home and every last thing in it except for me to ash .
And when I woke up the next morning , I was sleeping on a friend &apos;s floor , the only thing I had in the world was a toothbrush I had just bought from an all-night supermarket .
Of course , if anybody asked me then , &quot; Where is your home ? &quot;
I literally couldn &apos;t point to any physical construction .
My home would have to be whatever I carried around inside me .
And in so many ways , I think this is a terrific liberation .
Because when my grandparents were born , they pretty much had their sense of home , their sense of community , even their sense of enmity , assigned to them at birth , and didn &apos;t have much chance of stepping outside of that .
And nowadays , at least some of us can choose our sense of home , create our sense of community , fashion our sense of self , and in so doing maybe step a little beyond some of the black and white divisions of our grandparents &apos; age .
No coincidence that the president of the strongest nation on Earth is half-Kenyan , partly raised in Indonesia , has a Chinese-Canadian brother-in-law .
The number of people living in countries not their own now comes to 220 million , and that &apos;s an almost unimaginable number , but it means that if you took the whole population of Canada and the whole population of Australia and then the whole population of Australia again and the whole population of Canada again and doubled that number , you would still have fewer people than belong to this great floating tribe .
And the number of us who live outside the old nation-state categories is increasing so quickly , by 64 million just in the last 12 years , that soon there will be more of us than there are Americans .
Already , we represent the fifth-largest nation on Earth .
And in fact , in Canada &apos;s largest city , Toronto , the average resident today is what used to be called a foreigner , somebody born in a very different country .
And I &apos;ve always felt that the beauty of being surrounded by the foreign is that it slaps you awake .
You can &apos;t take anything for granted .
Travel , for me , is a little bit like being in love , because suddenly all your senses are at the setting marked &quot; &quot; on . &quot; &quot; Suddenly you &apos;re alert to the secret patterns of the world .
The real voyage of discovery , as Marcel Proust famously said , consists not in seeing new sights , but in looking with new eyes .
And of course , once you have new eyes , even the old sights , even your home become something different .
Many of the people living in countries not their own are refugees who never wanted to leave home and ache to go back home .
But for the fortunate among us , I think the age of movement brings exhilarating new possibilities .
Certainly when I &apos;m traveling , especially to the major cities of the world , the typical person I meet today will be , let &apos;s say , a half-Korean , half-German young woman living in Paris .
And as soon as she meets a half-Thai , half-Canadian young guy from Edinburgh , she recognizes him as kin .
She realizes that she probably has much more in common with him than with anybody entirely of Korea or entirely of Germany .
So they become friends . They fall in love .
They move to New York City .
( Laughter ) Or Edinburgh .
And the little girl who arises out of their union will of course be not Korean or German or French or Thai or Scotch or Canadian or even American , but a wonderful and constantly evolving mix of all those places .
And potentially , everything about the way that young woman dreams about the world , writes about the world , thinks about the world , could be something different , because it comes out of this almost unprecedented blend of cultures .
Where you come from now is much less important than where you &apos;re going .
More and more of us are rooted in the future or the present tense as much as in the past .
And home , we know , is not just the place where you happen to be born .
It &apos;s the place where you become yourself .
And yet , there is one great problem with movement , and that is that it &apos;s really hard to get your bearings when you &apos;re in midair .
Some years ago , I noticed that I had accumulated one million miles on United Airlines alone .
You all know that crazy system , six days in hell , you get the seventh day free .
( Laughter ) And I began to think that really , movement was only as good as the sense of stillness that you could bring to it to put it into perspective .
And eight months after my house burned down , I ran into a friend who taught at a local high school , and he said , &quot; &quot; I &apos;ve got the perfect place for you . &quot; &quot; &quot; &quot; Really ? &quot; &quot; I said . I &apos;m always a bit skeptical when people say things like that .
&quot; &quot; No , honestly , &quot; &quot; he went on , &quot; &quot; it &apos;s only three hours away by car , and it &apos;s not very expensive , and it &apos;s probably not like anywhere you &apos;ve stayed before . &quot; &quot; &quot; Hmm . &quot; I was beginning to get slightly intrigued . &quot; What is it ? &quot;
&quot; &quot; Well — &quot; &quot; Here my friend hemmed and hawed — &quot; Well , actually it &apos;s a Catholic hermitage . &quot;
This was the wrong answer .
I had spent 15 years in Anglican schools , so I had had enough hymnals and crosses to last me a lifetime .
Several lifetimes , actually .
But my friend assured me that he wasn &apos;t Catholic , nor were most of his students , but he took his classes there every spring .
And as he had it , even the most restless , distractible , testosterone-addled 15-year-old Californian boy only had to spend three days in silence and something in him cooled down and cleared out .
He found himself .
And I thought , &quot; &quot; Anything that works for a 15-year-old boy ought to work for me . &quot; &quot; So I got in my car , and I drove three hours north along the coast , and the roads grew emptier and narrower , and then I turned onto an even narrower path , barely paved , that snaked for two miles up to the top of a mountain .
And when I got out of my car , the air was pulsing .
The whole place was absolutely silent , but the silence wasn &apos;t an absence of noise .
It was really a presence of a kind of energy or quickening .
And at my feet was the great , still blue plate of the Pacific Ocean .
All around me were 800 acres of wild dry brush .
And I went down to the room in which I was to be sleeping .
Small but eminently comfortable , it had a bed and a rocking chair and a long desk and even longer picture windows looking out on a small , private , walled garden , and then 1,200 feet of golden pampas grass running down to the sea .
And I sat down , and I began to write , and write , and write , even though I &apos;d gone there really to get away from my desk .
And by the time I got up , four hours had passed .
Night had fallen , and I went out under this great overturned saltshaker of stars , and I could see the tail lights of cars disappearing around the headlands 12 miles to the south .
And it really seemed like my concerns of the previous day vanishing .
And the next day , when I woke up in the absence of telephones and TVs and laptops , the days seemed to stretch for a thousand hours .
It was really all the freedom I know when I &apos;m traveling , but it also profoundly felt like coming home .
And I &apos;m not a religious person , so I didn &apos;t go to the services .
I just took walks along the monastery road and sent postcards to loved ones .
I looked at the clouds , and I did what is hardest of all for me to do usually , which is nothing at all .
And I started to go back to this place , and I noticed that I was doing my most important work there invisibly just by sitting still , and certainly coming to my most critical decisions the way I never could when I was racing from the last email to the next appointment .
And I began to think that something in me had really been crying out for stillness , but of course I couldn &apos;t hear it because I was running around so much .
I was like some crazy guy who puts on a blindfold and then complains that he can &apos;t see a thing .
And I thought back to that wonderful phrase I had learned as a boy from Seneca , in which he says , &quot; &quot; That man is poor not who has little but who hankers after more . &quot; &quot; And , of course , I &apos;m not suggesting that anybody here go into a monastery .
But I do think it &apos;s only by stopping movement that you can see where to go .
And it &apos;s only by stepping out of your life and the world that you can see what you most deeply care about and find a home .
And I &apos;ve noticed so many people now take conscious measures to sit quietly for 30 minutes every morning just collecting themselves in one corner of the room without their devices , or go running every evening , or leave their cell phones behind when they go to have a long conversation with a friend .
Movement is a fantastic privilege , and it allows us to do so much that our grandparents could never have dreamed of doing .
But movement , ultimately , only has a meaning if you have a home to go back to .
And home , in the end , is of course not just the place where you sleep .
It &apos;s the place where you stand .
Thank you .
( Applause )
Some of my most wonderful memories of childhood are of spending time with my grandmother , Mamar , in our four-family home in Brooklyn , New York .
Her apartment was an oasis .
It was a place where I could sneak a cup of coffee , which was really warm milk with just a touch of caffeine .
She loved life .
And although she worked in a factory , she saved her pennies and she traveled to Europe .
And I remember poring over those pictures with her and then dancing with her to her favorite music .
And then , when I was eight and she was 60 , something changed .
She no longer worked or traveled .
She no longer danced .
There were no more coffee times .
My mother missed work and took her to doctors who couldn &apos;t make a diagnosis .
And my father , who worked at night , would spend every afternoon with her , just to make sure she ate .
Her care became all-consuming for our family .
And by the time a diagnosis was made , she was in a deep spiral .
Now many of you will recognize her symptoms .
My grandmother had depression .
A deep , life-altering depression , from which she never recovered .
And back then , so little was known about depression .
But even today , 50 years later , there &apos;s still so much more to learn .
Today , we know that women are 70 percent more likely to experience depression over their lifetimes compared with men .
And even with this high prevalence , women are misdiagnosed between 30 and 50 percent of the time .
Now we know that women are more likely to experience the symptoms of fatigue , sleep disturbance , pain and anxiety compared with men .
And these symptoms are often overlooked as symptoms of depression .
And it isn &apos;t only depression in which these sex differences occur , but they occur across so many diseases .
So it &apos;s my grandmother &apos;s struggles that have really led me on a lifelong quest .
And today , I lead a center in which the mission is to discover why these sex differences occur and to use that knowledge to improve the health of women .
Today , we know that every cell has a sex .
Now , that &apos;s a term coined by the Institute of Medicine .
And what it means is that men and women are different down to the cellular and molecular levels .
It means that we &apos;re different across all of our organs .
From our brains to our hearts , our lungs , our joints .
Now , it was only 20 years ago that we hardly had any data on women &apos;s health beyond our reproductive functions .
But then in 1993 , the NIH Revitalization Act was signed into law .
And what this law did was it mandated that women and minorities be included in clinical trials that were funded by the National Institutes of Health .
And in many ways , the law has worked .
Women are now routinely included in clinical studies , and we &apos;ve learned that there are major differences in the ways that women and men experience disease .
But remarkably , what we have learned about these differences is often overlooked .
So , we have to ask ourselves the question : Why leave women &apos;s health to chance ?
And we &apos;re leaving it to chance in two ways .
The first is that there is so much more to learn and we &apos;re not making the investment in fully understanding the extent of these sex differences .
And the second is that we aren &apos;t taking what we have learned , and routinely applying it in clinical care .
We are just not doing enough .
So , I &apos;m going to share with you three examples of where sex differences have impacted the health of women , and where we need to do more .
Let &apos;s start with heart disease .
It &apos;s the number one killer of women in the United States today .
This is the face of heart disease .
Linda is a middle-aged woman , who had a stent placed in one of the arteries going to her heart .
When she had recurring symptoms she went back to her doctor .
Her doctor did the gold standard test : a cardiac catheterization .
It showed no blockages .
Linda &apos;s symptoms continued .
She had to stop working .
And that &apos;s when she found us .
When Linda came to us , we did another cardiac catheterization and this time , we found clues .
But we needed another test to make the diagnosis .
So we did a test called an intracoronary ultrasound , where you use soundwaves to look at the artery from the inside out .
And what we found was that Linda &apos;s disease didn &apos;t look like the typical male disease .
The typical male disease looks like this .
Linda &apos;s disease , like the disease of so many women , looks like this .
The plaque is laid down more evenly , more diffusely along the artery , and it &apos;s harder to see .
So for Linda , and for so many women , the gold standard test wasn &apos;t gold .
Now , Linda received the right treatment .
She went back to her life and , fortunately , today she is doing well .
But Linda was lucky .
She found us , we found her disease .
But for too many women , that &apos;s not the case .
We have the tools .
We have the technology to make the diagnosis .
But it &apos;s all too often that these sex diffferences are overlooked .
So what about treatment ?
A landmark study that was published two years ago asked the very important question : What are the most effective treatments for heart disease in women ?
The authors looked at papers written over a 10-year period , and hundreds had to be thrown out .
And what they found out was that of those that were tossed out , 65 percent were excluded because even though women were included in the studies , the analysis didn &apos;t differentiate between women and men .
What a lost opportunity .
The money had been spent and we didn &apos;t learn how women fared .
And these studies could not contribute one iota to the very , very important question , what are the most effective treatments for heart disease in women ?
I want to introduce you to Hortense , my godmother , Hung Wei , a relative of a colleague , and somebody you may recognize — Dana , Christopher Reeve &apos;s wife .
All three women have something very important in common .
All three were diagnosed with lung cancer , the number one cancer killer of women in the United States today .
All three were nonsmokers .
Sadly , Dana and Hung Wei died of their disease .
Today , what we know is that women who are nonsmokers are three times more likely to be diagnosed with lung cancer than are men who are nonsmokers .
Now interestingly , when women are diagnosed with lung cancer , their survival tends to be better than that of men .
Now , here are some clues .
Our investigators have found that there are certain genes in the lung tumor cells of both women and men .
And these genes are activated mainly by estrogen .
And when these genes are over-expressed , it &apos;s associated with improved survival only in young women .
Now this is a very early finding and we don &apos;t yet know whether it has relevance to clinical care .
But it &apos;s findings like this that may provide hope and may provide an opportunity to save lives of both women and men .
Now , let me share with you an example of when we do consider sex differences , it can drive the science .
Several years ago a new lung cancer drug was being evaluated , and when the authors looked at whose tumors shrank , they found that 82 percent were women .
This led them to ask the question : Well , why ?
And what they found was that the genetic mutations that the drug targeted were far more common in women .
And what this has led to is a more personalized approach to the treatment of lung cancer that also includes sex .
This is what we can accomplish when we don &apos;t leave women &apos;s health to chance .
We know that when you invest in research , you get results .
Take a look at the death rate from breast cancer over time .
And now take a look at the death rates from lung cancer in women over time .
Now let &apos;s look at the dollars invested in breast cancer — these are the dollars invested per death — and the dollars invested in lung cancer .
Now , it &apos;s clear that our investment in breast cancer has produced results .
They may not be fast enough , but it has produced results .
We can do the same for lung cancer and for every other disease .
So let &apos;s go back to depression .
Depression is the number one cause of disability in women in the world today .
Our investigators have found that there are differences in the brains of women and men in the areas that are connected with mood .
And when you put men and women in a functional MRI scanner — that &apos;s the kind of scanner that shows how the brain is functioning when it &apos;s activated — so you put them in the scanner and you expose them to stress .
You can actually see the difference .
And it &apos;s findings like this that we believe hold some of the clues for why we see these very significant sex differences in depression .
But even though we know that these differences occur , 66 percent of the brain research that begins in animals is done in either male animals or animals in whom the sex is not identified .
So , I think we have to ask again the question : Why leave women &apos;s health to chance ?
And this is a question that haunts those of us in science and medicine who believe that we are on the verge of being able to dramatically improve the health of women .
We know that every cell has a sex .
We know that these differences are often overlooked .
And therefore we know that women are not getting the full benefit of modern science and medicine today .
We have the tools but we lack the collective will and momentum .
Women &apos;s health is an equal rights issue as important as equal pay .
And it &apos;s an issue of the quality and the integrity of science and medicine .
( Applause ) So imagine the momentum we could achieve in advancing the health of women if we considered whether these sex differences were present at the very beginning of designing research .
Or if we analyzed our data by sex .
So , people often ask me : What can I do ?
And here &apos;s what I suggest : First , I suggest that you think about women &apos;s health in the same way that you think and care about other causes that are important to you .
And second , and equally as important , that as a woman , you have to ask your doctor and the doctors who are caring for those who you love : Is this disease or treatment different in women ?
Now , this is a profound question because the answer is likely yes , but your doctor may not know the answer , at least not yet .
But if you ask the question , your doctor will very likely go looking for the answer .
And this is so important , not only for ourselves , but for all of those whom we love .
Whether it be a mother , a daughter , a sister , a friend or a grandmother .
It was my grandmother &apos;s suffering that inspired my work to improve the health of women .
That &apos;s her legacy .
Our legacy can be to improve the health of women for this generation and for generations to come .
Thank you .
( Applause )
I &apos;m a man who &apos;s trying to live from his heart , and so just before I get going , I wanted to tell you as a South African that one of the men who has inspired me most passed away a few hours ago .
Nelson Mandela has come to the end of his long walk to freedom .
And so this talk is going to be for him .
I grew up in wonder .
I grew up amongst those animals .
I grew up in the wild eastern part of South Africa at a place called Londolozi Game Reserve .
It &apos;s a place where my family has been in the safari business for four generations .
Now for as long as I can remember , my job has been to take people out into nature , and so I think it &apos;s a lovely twist of fate today to have the opportunity to bring some of my experiences out in nature in to this gathering .
Africa is a place where people still sit under starlit skies and around campfires and tell stories , and so what I have to share with you today is the simple medicine of a few campfire stories , stories about heroes of heart .
Now my stories are not the stories that you &apos;ll hear on the news , and while it &apos;s true that Africa is a harsh place , I also know it to be a place where people , animals and ecosystems teach us about a more interconnected world .
When I was nine years old , President Mandela came to stay with my family .
He had just been released from his 27 years of incarceration , and was in a period of readjustment to his sudden global icon status .
Members of the African National Congress thought that in the bush he would have time to rest and recuperate away from the public eye , and it &apos;s true that lions tend to be a very good deterrent to press and paparazzi .
( Laughter ) But it was a defining time for me as a young boy .
I would take him breakfast in bed , and then , in an old track suit and slippers , he would go for a walk around the garden .
At night , I would sit with my family around the snowy , bunny-eared TV , and watch images of that same quiet man from the garden surrounded by hundreds and thousands of people as scenes from his release were broadcast nightly .
He was bringing peace to a divided and violent South Africa , one man with an unbelievable sense of his humanity .
Mandela said often that the gift of prison was the ability to go within and to think , to create in himself the things he most wanted for South Africa : peace , reconciliation , harmony .
Through this act of immense open-heartedness , he was to become the embodiment of what in South Africa we call &quot; &quot; ubuntu . &quot; &quot; Ubuntu : I am because of you .
Or , people are not people without other people .
It &apos;s not a new idea or value but it &apos;s one that I certainly think at these times is worth building on .
In fact , it is said that in the collective consciousness of Africa , we get to experience the deepest parts of our own humanity through our interactions with others .
Ubuntu is at play right now .
You are holding a space for me to express the deepest truth of who I am .
Without you , I &apos;m just a guy talking to an empty room , and I spent a lot of time last week doing that , and it &apos;s not the same as this .
( Laughter ) If Mandela was the national and international embodiment , then the man who taught me the most about this value personally was this man , Solly Mhlongo .
Solly was born under a tree 60 kilometers from where I grew up in Mozambique .
He would never have a lot of money , but he was to be one of the richest men I would ever meet .
Solly grew up tending to his father &apos;s cattle .
Now , I can tell you , I don &apos;t know what it is about people who grow up looking after cattle , but it makes for über-resourcefulness .
The first job that he ever got in the safari business was fixing the safari trucks .
Where he had learned to do that out in the bush I have no idea , but he could do it .
He then moved across into what we called the habitat team .
These were the people on the reserve who were responsible for its well-being .
He fixed roads , he mended wetlands , he did some anti-poaching .
And then one day we were out together , and he came across the tracks of where a female leopard had walked .
And it was an old track , but for fun he turned and he began to follow it , and I tell you , I could tell by the speed at which he moved on those pad marks that this man was a Ph.D.-level tracker .
If you drove past Solly somewhere out on the reserve , you look up in your rearview mirror , you &apos;d see he &apos;d stopped the car 20 , 50 meters down the road just in case you need help with something .
The only accusation I ever heard leveled at him was when one of our clients said , &quot; Solly , you are pathologically helpful . &quot;
( Laughter ) When I started professionally guiding people out into this environment , Solly was my tracker .
We worked together as a team .
And the first guests we ever got were a philanthropy group from your East Coast , and they said to Solly , on the side , they said , &quot; &quot; Before we even go out to see lions and leopards , we want to see where you live . &quot; &quot; So we took them up to his house , and this visit of the philanthropist to his house coincided with a time when Solly &apos;s wife , who was learning English , was going through a phase where she would open the door by saying , &quot; &quot; Hello , I love you .
Welcome , I love you . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) And there was something so beautifully African about it to me , this small house with a huge heart in it .
Now on the day that Solly saved my life , he was already my hero .
It was a hot day , and we found ourselves down by the river .
Because of the heat , I took my shoes off , and I rolled up my pants , and I walked into the water .
Solly remained on the bank .
The water was clear running over sand , and we turned and we began to make our way upstream .
And a few meters ahead of us , there was a place where a tree had fallen out of the bank , and its branches were touching the water , and it was shadowy .
And if had been a horror movie , people in the audience would have started saying , &quot; &quot; Don &apos;t go in there . Don &apos;t go in there . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) And of course , the crocodile was in the shadows .
Now the first thing that you notice when a crocodile hits you is the ferocity of the bite .
Wham ! It hits me by my right leg .
It pulls me . It turns . I throw my hand up . I &apos;m able to grab a branch .
It &apos;s shaking me violently .
It &apos;s a very strange sensation having another creature try and eat you , and there are few things that promote vegetarianism like that .
( Laughter ) Solly on the bank sees that I &apos;m in trouble .
He turns . He begins to make his way to me .
The croc again continues to shake me .
It goes to bite me a second time .
I notice a slick of blood in the water around me that gets washed downstream .
As it bites the second time , I kick .
My foot goes down its throat . It spits me out .
I pull myself up into the branches , and as I come out of the water , I look over my shoulder .
My leg from the knee down is mangled beyond description .
The bone is cracked .
The meat is torn up .
I make an instant decision that I &apos;ll never look at that again .
As I come out of the water , Solly arrives at a deep section , a channel between us .
He knows , he sees the state of my leg , he knows that between him and I there is a crocodile , and I can tell you this man doesn &apos;t slow down for one second .
He comes straight into the channel .
He wades in to above his waist .
He gets to me . He grabs me .
I &apos;m still in a vulnerable position .
He picks me and puts me on his shoulder .
This is the other thing about Solly , he &apos;s freakishly strong .
He turns . He walks me up the bank .
He lays me down . He pulls his shirt off .
He wraps it around my leg , picks me up a second time , walks me to a vehicle , and he &apos;s able to get me to medical attention .
And I survive .
Now — ( Applause ) Now I don &apos;t know how many people you know that go into a deep channel of water that they know has a crocodile in it to come and help you , but for Solly , it was as natural as breathing .
And he is one amazing example of what I have experienced all over Africa .
In a more collective society , we realize from the inside that our own well-being is deeply tied to the well-being of others .
Danger is shared . Pain is shared .
Joy is shared . Achievement is shared .
Houses are shared . Food is shared .
Ubuntu asks us to open our hearts and to share , and what Solly taught me that day is the essence of this value , his animated , empathetic action in every moment .
Now although the root word is about people , I thought that maybe ubuntu was only about people .
And then I met this young lady .
Her name was Elvis .
In fact , Solly gave her the name Elvis because he said she walked like she was doing the Elvis the pelvis dance .
She was born with very badly deformed back legs and pelvis .
She arrived at our reserve from a reserve east of us on her migratory route .
When I first saw her , I thought she would be dead in a matter of days .
And yet , for the next five years she returned in the winter months .
And we would be so excited to be out in the bush and to come across this unusual track .
It looked like an inverted bracket , and we would drop whatever we were doing and we would follow , and then we would come around the corner , and there she would be with her herd .
And that outpouring of emotion from people on our safari trucks as they saw her , it was this sense of kinship .
And it reminded me that even people who grow up in cities feel a natural connection with the natural world and with animals .
And yet still I remained amazed that she was surviving .
And then one day we came across them at this small water hole .
It was sort of a hollow in the ground .
And I watched as the matriarch drank , and then she turned in that beautiful slow motion of elephants , looks like the arm in motion , and she began to make her way up the steep bank .
The rest of the herd turned and began to follow .
And I watched young Elvis begin to psych herself up for the hill .
She got visibly — ears came forward , she had a full go of it and halfway up , her legs gave way , and she fell backwards .
She attempted it a second time , and again , halfway up , she fell backwards .
And on the third attempt , an amazing thing happened .
Halfway up the bank , a young teenage elephant came in behind her , and he propped his trunk underneath her , and he began to shovel her up the bank .
And it occurred to me that the rest of the herd was in fact looking after this young elephant .
The next day I watched again as the matriarch broke a branch and she would put it in her mouth , and then she would break a second one and drop it on the ground .
And a consensus developed between all of us who were guiding people in that area that that herd was in fact moving slower to accommodate that elephant .
What Elvis and the herd taught me caused me to expand my definition of ubuntu , and I believe that in the cathedral of the wild , we get to see the most beautiful parts of ourselves reflected back at us .
And it is not only through other people that we get to experience our humanity but through all the creatures that live on this planet .
If Africa has a gift to share , it &apos;s a gift of a more collective society .
And while it &apos;s true that ubuntu is an African idea , what I see is the essence of that value being invented here .
Thank you .
( Applause ) Pat Mitchell : So Boyd , we know that you knew President Mandela from early childhood and that you heard the news as we all did today , and deeply distraught and know the tragic loss that it is to the world .
But I just wondered if you wanted to share any additional thoughts , because we know that you heard that news just before coming in to do this session .
Boyd Varty : Well thanks , Pat .
I &apos;m so happy because it was time for him to pass on .
He was suffering .
And so of course there &apos;s the mixed emotions .
But I just think of so many occurrences like the time he went on the Oprah show and asked her what the show would be about .
( Laughter ) And she was like , &quot; &quot; Well , it &apos;ll be about you . &quot; &quot; I mean , that &apos;s just incredible humility . ( Laughter )
He was the father of our nation and we &apos;ve got a road to walk in South Africa .
And everything , they used to call it Madiba magic .
You know , he used to go to a rugby match and we would win .
Anywhere he went , things went well .
But I think that magic will be with us , and the important thing is that we carry what he stood for .
And so that &apos;s what I &apos;m going to try and do , and that &apos;s what people all over South Africa are trying to do .
PM : And that &apos;s what you &apos;ve done today . BV : Oh , thank you .
PM : Thank you . BV : Thank you . Thanks very much .
( Applause )
1.3 billion years ago , in a distant , distant galaxy , two black holes locked into a spiral , falling inexorably towards each other and collided , converting three Suns &apos; worth of stuff into pure energy in a tenth of a second .
For that brief moment in time , the glow was brighter than all the stars in all the galaxies in all of the known Universe .
It was a very big bang .
But they didn &apos;t release their energy in light .
I mean , you know , they &apos;re black holes .
All that energy was pumped into the fabric of space and time itself , making the Universe explode in gravitational waves .
For the last several years , LIGO &apos;s been undergoing a huge expansion in its accuracy , a tremendous improvement in its detection ability .
And they passed through you and me .
And they passed through the detector .
The other is when I had to say goodbye to my father when he was terminally ill .
You know , it was the payoff of my career , basically .
Everything I &apos;d been working on — it &apos;s no longer science fiction ! ( Laughs ) Allan Adams : So that &apos;s my very good friend and collaborator , Scott Hughes , a theoretical physicist at MIT , who has been studying gravitational waves from black holes and the signals that they could impart on observatories like LIGO , for the past 23 years .
So let me take a moment to tell you what I mean by a gravitational wave .
A gravitational wave is a ripple in the shape of space and time .
As the wave passes by , it stretches space and everything in it in one direction , and compresses it in the other .
This has led to countless instructors of general relativity doing a really silly dance to demonstrate in their classes on general relativity .
&quot; It stretches and expands , it stretches and expands . &quot;
For example , the waves that hit us on September 14 — and yes , every single one of you stretched and compressed under the action of that wave — when the waves hit , they stretched the average person by one part in 10 to the 21 .
That &apos;s a decimal place , 20 zeroes , and a one .
That &apos;s why everyone thought the LIGO people were nuts .
Even with a laser detector five kilometers long — and that &apos;s already crazy — they would have to measure the length of those detectors to less than one thousandth of the radius of the nucleus of an atom .
So towards the end of his classic text on gravity , LIGO co-founder Kip Thorne described the hunt for gravitational waves as follows : He said , &quot; &quot; The technical difficulties to be surmounted in constructing such detectors are enormous .
But physicists are ingenious , and with the support of a broad lay public , all obstacles will surely be overcome . &quot; &quot; Thorne published that in 1973 , 42 years before he succeeded .
Now , coming back to LIGO , Scott likes to say that LIGO acts like an ear more than it does like an eye .
Visible light has a wavelength , a size , that &apos;s much smaller than the things around you , the features on people &apos;s faces , the size of your cell phone .
And that &apos;s really useful , because it lets you make an image or a map of the things around you , by looking at the light coming from different spots in the scene about you .
Sound is different .
Audible sound has a wavelength that can be up to 50 feet long .
And that makes it really difficult — in fact , in practical purposes , impossible — to make an image of something you really care about .
Your child &apos;s face .
Instead , we use sound to listen for features like pitch and tone and rhythm and volume to infer a story behind the sounds .
That &apos;s Alice talking .
That &apos;s Bob interrupting .
Silly Bob .
So , the same is true of gravitational waves .
We can &apos;t use them to make simple images of things out in the Universe .
But by listening to changes in the amplitude and frequency of those waves , we can hear the story that those waves are telling .
And at least for LIGO , the frequencies that it can hear are in the audio band .
So if we convert the wave patterns into pressure waves and air , into sound , we can literally hear the Universe speaking to us .
For example , listening to gravity , just in this way , can tell us a lot about the collision of two black holes , something my colleague Scott has spent an awful lot of time thinking about .
( Audio ) SH : If the two black holes are non-spinning , you get a very simple chirp : whoop !
If the two bodies are spinning very rapidly , I have that same chirp , but with a modulation on top of it , so it kind of goes : whir , whir , whir !
It &apos;s sort of the vocabulary of spin imprinted on this waveform .
AA : So on September 14 , 2015 , a date that &apos;s definitely going to live in my memory , LIGO heard this : &#91; Whirring sound &#93; So if you know how to listen , that is the sound of — ( Audio ) SH : ... two black holes , each of about 30 solar masses , that were whirling around at a rate comparable to what goes on in your blender .
AA : It &apos;s worth pausing here to think about what that means .
Two black holes , the densest thing in the Universe , one with a mass of 29 Suns and one with a mass of 36 Suns , whirling around each other 100 times per second before they collide .
Just imagine the power of that .
It &apos;s fantastic .
And we know it because we heard it .
That &apos;s the lasting importance of LIGO .
It &apos;s an entirely new way to observe the Universe that we &apos;ve never had before .
It &apos;s a way that lets us hear the Universe and hear the invisible .
And there &apos;s a lot out there that we can &apos;t see — in practice or even in principle .
So supernova , for example : I would love to know why very massive stars explode in supernovae .
The problem is , all the interesting physics happens in the core , and the core is hidden behind thousands of kilometers of iron and carbon and silicon .
The Big Bang : I would love to be able to explore the first few moments of the Universe , but we &apos;ll never see them , because the Big Bang itself is obscured by its own afterglow .
Perhaps most importantly , I &apos;m positive that there are things out there that we &apos;ve never seen that we may never be able to see and that we haven &apos;t even imagined — things that we &apos;ll only discover by listening .
And in fact , even in that very first event , LIGO found things that we didn &apos;t expect .
Here &apos;s my colleague and one of the key members of the LIGO collaboration , Matt Evans , my colleague at MIT , addressing exactly that : ( Audio ) Matt Evans : The kinds of stars which produce the black holes that we observed here are the dinosaurs of the Universe .
They &apos;re these massive things that are old , from prehistoric times , and the black holes are kind of like the dinosaur bones with which we do this archeology .
So it lets us really get a whole nother angle on what &apos;s out there in the Universe and how the stars came to be , and in the end , of course , how we came to be out of this whole mess .
AA : Our challenge now is to be as audacious as possible .
Thanks to LIGO , we know how to build exquisite detectors that can listen to the Universe , to the rustle and the chirp of the cosmos .
Our job is to dream up and build new observatories — a whole new generation of observatories — on the ground , in space .
I mean , what could be more glorious than listening to the Big Bang itself ?
Our job now is to dream big .
Dream with us .
Thank you .
( Applause )
So for the past year and a half , my team at Push Pop Press and Charlie Melcher and Melcher Media have been working on creating the first feature-length interactive book .
It &apos;s called &quot; &quot; Our Choice &quot; &quot; and the author is Al Gore .
It &apos;s the sequel to &quot; &quot; An Inconvenient Truth , &quot; &quot; and it explores all the solutions that will solve the climate crisis .
As the globe spins , we can see our location , and we can open the book and swipe through the chapters to browse the book .
Or , we can scroll through the pages at the bottom .
And if we wanted to zoom into a page , we can just open it up .
And anything you see in the book , you can pick up with two fingers and lift off the page and open up .
And if you want to go back and read the book again , you just fold it back up and put it back on the page .
And so this works the same way ; you pick it up and pop it open .
( Audio ) Al Gore : I consider myself among the majority who look at windmills and feel they &apos;re a beautiful addition to the landscape .
Mike Matas : And so throughout the whole book , Al Gore will walk you through and explain the photos .
This photo , you can you can even see on an interactive map .
Zoom into it and see where it was taken .
And throughout the book , there &apos;s over an hour of documentary footage and interactive animations .
So you can open this one .
( Audio ) AG : Most modern wind turbines consist of a large ...
MM : It starts playing immediately .
And while it &apos;s playing , we can pinch and peak back at the page , and the movie keeps playing .
Or we can zoom out to the table of contents , and the video keeps playing .
But one of the coolest things in this book are the interactive infographics .
This one shows the wind potential all around the United States .
But instead of just showing us the information , we can take our finger and explore , and see , state by state , exactly how much wind potential there is .
We can do the same for geothermal energy and solar power .
This is one of my favorites .
So this shows ...
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) When the wind is blowing , any excess energy coming from the windmill is diverted into the battery .
And as the wind starts dying down , any excess energy will be diverted back into the house — the lights never go out .
And this whole book , it doesn &apos;t just run on the iPad .
It also runs on the iPhone .
And so you can start reading on your iPad in your living room and then pick up where you left off on the iPhone .
So that &apos;s Push Pop Press &apos; first title , Al Gore &apos;s &quot; &quot; Our Choice . &quot; &quot; Thank you .
Do you want to be a publisher , a technology licenser ?
What is the business here ?
Is this something that other people can do ?
MM : Yeah , we &apos;re building a tool that makes it really easy for publishers right now to build this content .
So Melcher Media &apos;s team , who &apos;s on the East coast — and we &apos;re on the West coast , building the software — takes our tool and , every day , drags in images and text .
CA : So you want to license this software to publishers to make books as beautiful as that ? ( MM : Yes . ) All right . Mike , thanks so much .
What &apos;s the fastest growing threat to Americans &apos; health ?
The answer is actually none of these ; it &apos;s Alzheimer &apos;s disease .
Every 67 seconds , someone in the United States is diagnosed with Alzheimer &apos;s .
As the number of Alzheimer &apos;s patients triples by the year 2050 , caring for them , as well as the rest of the aging population , will become an overwhelming societal challenge .
My family has experienced firsthand the struggles of caring for an Alzheimer &apos;s patient .
Growing up in a family with three generations , I &apos;ve always been very close to my grandfather .
When I was four years old , my grandfather and I were walking in a park in Japan when he suddenly got lost .
It was one of the scariest moments I &apos;ve ever experienced in my life , and it was also the first instance that informed us that my grandfather had Alzheimer &apos;s disease .
Over the past 12 years , his condition got worse and worse , and his wandering in particular caused my family a lot of stress .
My aunt , his primary caregiver , really struggled to stay awake at night to keep an eye on him , and even then often failed to catch him leaving the bed .
I became really concerned about my aunt &apos;s well-being as well as my grandfather &apos;s safety .
I searched extensively for a solution that could help my family &apos;s problems , but couldn &apos;t find one .
Then , one night about two years ago , I was looking after my grandfather and I saw him stepping out of the bed .
The moment his foot landed on the floor , I thought , why don &apos;t I put a pressure sensor on the heel of his foot ?
Once he stepped onto the floor and out of the bed , the pressure sensor would detect an increase in pressure caused by body weight and then wirelessly send an audible alert to the caregiver &apos;s smartphone .
That way , my aunt could sleep much better at night without having to worry about my grandfather &apos;s wandering .
So now I &apos;d like to perform a demonstration of this sock .
Could I please have my sock model on the stage ?
Great .
So once the patient steps onto the floor — ( Ringing ) — an alert is sent to the caregiver &apos;s smartphone .
Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you , sock model .
My desire to create a sensor-based technology perhaps stemmed from my lifelong love for sensors and technology .
When I was six years old , an elderly family friend fell down in the bathroom and suffered severe injuries .
I became concerned about my own grandparents and decided to invent a smart bathroom system .
Motion sensors would be installed inside the tiles of bathroom floors to detect the falls of elderly patients whenever they fell down in the bathroom .
Since I was only six years old at the time and I hadn &apos;t graduated from kindergarten yet , I didn &apos;t have the necessary resources and tools to translate my idea into reality , but nonetheless , my research experience really implanted in me a firm desire to use sensors to help the elderly people .
I really believe that sensors can improve the quality of life of the elderly .
When I laid out my plan , I realized that I faced three main challenges : first , creating a sensor ; second , designing a circuit ; and third , coding a smartphone app .
This made me realize that my project was actually much harder to realize than I initially had thought it to be .
First , I had to create a wearable sensor that was thin and flexible enough to be worn comfortably on the bottom of the patient &apos;s foot .
After extensive research and testing of different materials like rubber , which I realized was too thick to be worn snugly on the bottom of the foot , I decided to print a film sensor with electrically conductive pressure-sensitive ink particles .
Once pressure is applied , the connectivity between the particles increases .
Therefore , I could design a circuit that would measure pressure by measuring electrical resistance .
Next , I had to design a wearable wireless circuit , but wireless signal transmission consumes lots of power and requires heavy , bulky batteries .
Thankfully , I was able to find out about the Bluetooth low energy technology , which consumes very little power and can be driven by a coin-sized battery .
This prevented the system from dying in the middle of the night .
Lastly , I had to code a smartphone app that would essentially transform the care-giver &apos;s smartphone into a remote monitor .
For this , I had to expand upon my knowledge of coding with Java and XCode and I also had to learn about how to code for Bluetooth low energy devices by watching YouTube tutorials and reading various textbooks .
Integrating these components , I was able to successfully create two prototypes , one in which the sensor is embedded inside a sock , and another that &apos;s a re-attachable sensor assembly that can be adhered anywhere that makes contact with the bottom of the patient &apos;s foot .
I &apos;ve tested the device on my grandfather for about a year now , and it &apos;s had a 100 percent success rate in detecting the over 900 known cases of his wandering .
Last summer , I was able to beta test my device at several residential care facilities in California , and I &apos;m currently incorporating the feedback to further improve the device into a marketable product .
Testing the device on a number of patients made me realize that I needed to invent solutions for people who didn &apos;t want to wear socks to sleep at night .
So sensor data , collected on a vast number of patients , can be useful for improving patient care and also leading to a cure for the disease , possibly .
For example , I &apos;m currently examining correlations between the frequency of a patient &apos;s nightly wandering and his or her daily activities and diet .
One thing I &apos;ll never forget is when my device first caught my grandfather &apos;s wandering out of bed at night .
At that moment , I was really struck by the power of technology to change lives for the better .
People living happily and healthfully — that &apos;s the world that I imagine .
Thank you very much .
( Applause )
The idea that we will make a society where literally everybody is graded , the good at the top , bad at the bottom , exactly done as it should be , is impossible .
The question is , Why is it that the letter X represents the unknown ?
Now I know we learned that in math class , but now it &apos;s everywhere in the culture — The X prize , the X-Files , Project X , TEDx .
Where &apos;d that come from ?
About six years ago I decided that I would learn Arabic , which turns out to be a supremely logical language .
To write a word or a phrase or a sentence in Arabic is like crafting an equation , because every part is extremely precise and carries a lot of information .
That &apos;s one of the reasons so much of what we &apos;ve come to think of as Western science and mathematics and engineering was really worked out in the first few centuries of the Common Era by the Persians and the Arabs and the Turks .
This includes the little system in Arabic called al-jebra .
And al-jebr roughly translates to &quot; the system for reconciling disparate parts . &quot;
Al-jebr finally came into English as algebra .
One example among many .
The Arabic texts containing this mathematical wisdom finally made their way to Europe — which is to say Spain — in the 11th and 12th centuries .
And when they arrived there was tremendous interest in translating this wisdom into a European language .
But there were problems .
One problem is there are some sounds in Arabic that just don &apos;t make it through a European voice box without lots of practice .
Trust me on that one .
Also , those very sounds tend not to be represented by the characters that are available in European languages .
Here &apos;s one of the culprits .
This is the letter SHeen , and it makes the sound we think of as SH — &quot; &quot; sh . &quot; &quot; It &apos;s also the very first letter of the word shalan , which means &quot; &quot; something &quot; &quot; just like the the English word &quot; &quot; something &quot; &quot; — some undefined , unknown thing .
Now in Arabic , we can make this definite by adding the definite article &quot; &quot; al . &quot; &quot; So this is al-shalan — the unknown thing .
And this is a word that appears throughout early mathematics , such as this 10th century derivation of proofs .
The problem for the Medieval Spanish scholars who were tasked with translating this material is that the letter SHeen and the word shalan can &apos;t be rendered into Spanish because Spanish doesn &apos;t have that SH , that &quot; &quot; sh &quot; &quot; sound .
So by convention , they created a rule in which they borrowed the CK sound , &quot; &quot; ck &quot; &quot; sound , from the classical Greek in the form of the letter Kai .
Later when this material was translated into a common European language , which is to say Latin , they simply replaced the Greek Kai with the Latin X.
And once that happened , once this material was in Latin , it formed the basis for mathematics textbooks for almost 600 years .
But now we have the answer to our question .
Why is it that X is the unknown ? X is the unknown
because you can &apos;t say &quot; &quot; sh &quot; &quot; in Spanish .
( Laughter ) And I thought that was worth sharing .
( Applause )
Someone who looks like me walks past you in the street .
Do you think they &apos;re a mother , a refugee or a victim of oppression ?
Or do you think they &apos;re a cardiologist , a barrister or maybe your local politician ?
What if I wore my scarf like this ?
I can walk down the street in the exact same outfit and what the world expects of me and the way I &apos;m treated depends on the arrangement of this piece of cloth .
But this isn &apos;t going to be another monologue about the hijab because Lord knows , Muslim women are so much more than the piece of cloth they choose , or not , to wrap their head in .
This is about looking beyond your bias .
What if I walked past you and later on you &apos;d found out that actually I was a race car engineer , and that I designed my own race car and I ran my university &apos;s race team , because it &apos;s true .
What if I told you that I was actually trained as a boxer for five years , because that &apos;s true , too .
Would it surprise you ?
Why ?
Ladies and gentlemen , ultimately , that surprise and the behaviors associated with it are the product of something called unconscious bias , or implicit prejudice .
And that results in the ridiculously detrimental lack of diversity in our workforce , particularly in areas of influence .
Hello , Australian Federal Cabinet .
( Applause ) Let me just set something out from the outset : Unconscious bias is not the same as conscious discrimination .
I &apos;m not saying that in all of you , there &apos;s a secret sexist or racist or ageist lurking within , waiting to get out .
That &apos;s not what I &apos;m saying .
We all have our biases .
They &apos;re the filters through which we see the world around us .
I &apos;m not accusing anyone , bias is not an accusation .
Rather , it &apos;s something that has to be identified , acknowledged and mitigated against .
Bias can be about race , it can be about gender .
It can also be about class , education , disability .
The fact is , we all have biases against what &apos;s different , what &apos;s different to our social norms .
The thing is , if we want to live in a world where the circumstances of your birth do not dictate your future and where equal opportunity is ubiquitous , then each and every one of us has a role to play in making sure unconscious bias does not determine our lives .
There &apos;s this really famous experiment in the space of unconscious bias and that &apos;s in the space of gender in the 1970s and 1980s .
So orchestras , back in the day , were made up mostly of dudes , up to only five percent were female .
And apparently , that was because men played it differently , presumably better , presumably .
But in 1952 , The Boston Symphony Orchestra started an experiment .
They started blind auditions .
Now funnily enough , no immediate change was registered until they asked the audition-ers to take their shoes off before they entered the room .
because the clickity-clack of the heels against the hardwood floors was enough to give the ladies away .
Now get this , there results of the audition showed that there was a 50 percent increased chance a woman would progress past the preliminary stage .
And it almost tripled their chances of getting in .
What does that tell us ?
Well , unfortunately for the guys , men actually didn &apos;t play differently , but there was the perception that they did .
And it was that bias that was determining their outcome .
So what we &apos;re doing here is identifying and acknowledging that a bias exists .
Let me give you an example .
A son and his father are in a horrible car accident .
The father dies on impact and the son , who &apos;s severely injured , is rushed to hospital .
The surgeon looks at the son when they arrive and is like , &quot; I can &apos;t operate . &quot;
Why ?
&quot; The boy is my son . &quot;
How can that be ?
Ladies and gentlemen , the surgeon is his mother .
Now hands up — and it &apos;s okay — but hands up if you initially assumed the surgeon was a guy ?
There &apos;s evidence that that unconscious bias exists , but we all just have to acknowledge that it &apos;s there and then look at ways that we can move past it so that we can look at solutions .
Now one of the interesting things around the space of unconscious bias is the topic of quotas .
And this something that &apos;s often brought up .
And of of the criticisms is this idea of merit .
Look , I don &apos;t want to be picked because I &apos;m a chick , I want to be picked because I have merit , because I &apos;m the best person for the job .
It &apos;s a sentiment that &apos;s pretty common among female engineers that I work with and that I know .
And yeah , I get it , I &apos;ve been there .
But , if the merit idea was true , why would identical resumes , in an experiment done in 2012 by Yale , identical resumes sent out for a lab technician , why would Jennifers be deemed less competent , be less likely to be offered the job , and be paid less than Johns .
And in organizations — and this is kind of ironic — in organizations that talk about merit being their primary value-driver in terms of who they hire , they were more likely to hire dudes and more likely to pay the guys more because apparently merit is a masculine quality .
But , hey .
So you guys think you &apos;ve got a good read on me , you kinda think you know what &apos;s up .
Can you imagine me running one of these ?
Can you imagine me walking in and being like , &quot; Hey boys , this is what &apos;s up . This is how it &apos;s done . &quot;
Well , I &apos;m glad you can .
( Applause ) Because ladies and gentlemen , that &apos;s my day job .
And the cool thing about it is that it &apos;s pretty entertaining .
Actually , in places like Malaysia , Muslim women on rigs isn &apos;t even comment-worthy .
And he &apos;s like , &quot; &quot; Yassmin , I don &apos;t know how you can surf with all that gear you &apos;ve got on , and I don &apos;t know any women-only beaches . &quot; &quot; And then , the guy came up with a brilliant idea , he was like , &quot; &quot; I know , you run that organization Youth Without Borders , right ?
Why don &apos;t you start a clothing line for Muslim chicks in beaches .
You can call it Youth Without Boardshorts . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) And I was like , &quot; &quot; Thanks , guys . &quot; &quot; And I remember another bloke telling me that I should eat all the yogurt I could because that was the only culture I was going to get around there .
But , the problem is , it &apos;s kind of true because there &apos;s an intense lack of diversity in our workforce , particularly in places of influence .
Now , in 2010 , The Australian National University did an experiment where they sent out 4,000 identical applications to entry level jobs , essentially .
To get the same number of interviews as someone with an Anglo-Saxon name , if you were Chinese , you had to send out 68 percent more applications .
If you were Middle Eastern — Abdel-Magied — you had to send out 64 percent , and if you &apos;re Italian , you &apos;re pretty lucky , you only have to send out 12 percent more .
In places like Silicon Valley , it &apos;s not that much better .
In Google , they put out some diversity results and 61 percent white , 30 percent Asian and nine , a bunch of blacks , Hispanics , all that kind of thing .
And the rest of the tech world is not that much better and they &apos;ve acknowledged it , but I &apos;m not really sure what they &apos;re doing about it .
In a study done by Green Park , who are a British senior exec supplier , they said that over half of the FTSE 100 companies don &apos;t have a nonwhite leader at their board level , executive or non-executive .
And two out of every three don &apos;t have an executive who &apos;s from a minority .
And most of the minorities that are at that sort of level are non-executive board directors .
I &apos;ve told you a bunch of terrible things .
You &apos;re like , &quot; &quot; Oh my god , how bad is that ? What can I do about it ? &quot; &quot; Well , fortunately , we &apos;ve identified that there &apos;s a problem .
There &apos;s a lack of opportunity , and that &apos;s due to unconscious bias .
But you might be sitting there thinking , &quot; I ain &apos;t brown . What &apos;s that got to do with me ? &quot;
Let me offer you a solution .
And as I &apos;ve said before , we live in a world where we &apos;re looking for an ideal .
And if we want to create a world where the circumstances of your birth don &apos;t matter , we all have to be part of the solution .
And interestingly , the author of the lab resume experiment offered some sort of a solution .
She said the one thing that brought the successful women together , the one thing that they had in common , was the fact that they had good mentors .
So mentoring , we &apos;ve all kind of heard that before , it &apos;s in the vernacular .
Here &apos;s another challenge for you .
I challenge each and every one of you to mentor someone different .
Think about it .
Everyone wants to mentor someone who kind of is familiar , who looks like us , we have shared experiences .
If I see a Muslim chick who &apos;s got a bit of attitude , I &apos;m like , &quot; &quot; What &apos;s up ? We can hang out . &quot; &quot; You walk into a room and there &apos;s someone who went to the same school , you play the same sports , there &apos;s a high chance that you &apos;re going to want to help that person out .
But for the person in the room who has no shared experiences with you it becomes extremely difficult to find that connection .
The idea of finding someone different to mentor , someone who doesn &apos;t come from the same background as you , whatever that background is , is about opening doors for people who couldn &apos;t even get to the damn hallway .
Because ladies and gentlemen , the world is not just .
I was born brown , I was born female , and I was born Muslim in a world that is pretty suspicious of us for reasons I can &apos;t control .
However , I also acknowledge the fact that I was born with privilege .
I was born with amazing parents , I was given an education and had the blessing of migrating to Australia .
But also , I &apos;ve been blessed with amazing mentors who &apos;ve opened doors for me that I didn &apos;t even know were there .
A mentor who said to me , &quot; &quot; Hey , your story &apos;s interesting .
Let &apos;s write something about it so that I can share it with people . &quot; &quot; A mentor who said , &quot; &quot; I know you &apos;re all those things that don &apos;t belong on an Australian rig , but come on anyway . &quot; &quot; And here I am , talking to you .
And I &apos;m not the only one .
There &apos;s all sorts of people in my communities that I see have been helped out by mentors .
A young Muslim man in Sydney who ended up using his mentor &apos;s help to start up a poetry slam in Bankstown and now it &apos;s a huge thing .
And he &apos;s able to change the lives of so many other young people .
Or a lady here in Brisbane , an Afghan lady who &apos;s a refugee , who could barely speak English when she came to Australia , her mentors helped her become a doctor and she took our Young Queenslander of the Year Award in 2008 .
This is so not smooth .
This is me .
But I &apos;m also the woman in the rig clothes , and I &apos;m also the woman who was in the abaya at the beginning .
Would you have chosen to mentor me if you had seen me in one of those other versions of who I am ?
Because I &apos;m that same person .
We have to look past our unconscious bias , find someone to mentor who &apos;s at the opposite end of your spectrum because structural change takes time , and I don &apos;t have that level of patience .
So if we &apos;re going to create a change , if we &apos;re going to create a world where we all have those kinds of opportunities , then choose to open doors for people .
Because you might think that diversity has nothing to do with you , but we are all part of this system and we can all be part of that solution .
And if you don &apos;t know where to find someone different , go to the places you wouldn &apos;t usually go .
Or perhaps you work at an office .
Take out that new grad who looks totally out of place — &apos; cause that was me — and open doors for them , not in a tokenistic way , because we &apos;re not victims , but show them the opportunities because opening up your world will make you realize that you have access to doors that they didn &apos;t even know existed and you didn &apos;t even know they didn &apos;t have .
Ladies and gentlemen , there is a problem in our community with lack of opportunity , especially due to unconscious bias .
I know you &apos;ve been given a lot of challenges today , but if you can take this one piece and think about it a little differently , because diversity is magic .
And I encourage you to look past your initial perceptions because I bet you , they &apos;re probably wrong .
Thank you .
( Applause )
So I thought of a different way , by thinking , well , the talks revolve around certain themes .
I live in South Central .
This is South Central : liquor stores , fast food , vacant lots .
So the city planners , they get together and they figure they &apos;re going to change the name South Central to make it represent something else , so they change it to South Los Angeles , like this is going to fix what &apos;s really going wrong in the city .
This is South Los Angeles . ( Laughter ) Liquor stores , fast food , vacant lots .
Just like 26.5 million other Americans , I live in a food desert , South Central Los Angeles , home of the drive-thru and the drive-by .
Funny thing is , the drive-thrus are killing more people than the drive-bys .
People are dying from curable diseases in South Central Los Angeles .
For instance , the obesity rate in my neighborhood is five times higher than , say , Beverly Hills , which is probably eight , 10 miles away .
I got tired of seeing this happening .
And I was wondering , how would you feel if you had no access to healthy food , if every time you walk out your door you see the ill effects that the present food system has on your neighborhood ?
I see wheelchairs bought and sold like used cars .
I see dialysis centers popping up like Starbucks .
And I figured , this has to stop .
So I figured that the problem is the solution .
Food is the problem and food is the solution .
Plus I got tired of driving 45 minutes round trip to get an apple that wasn &apos;t impregnated with pesticides .
So what I did , I planted a food forest in front of my house .
It was on a strip of land that we call a parkway .
It &apos;s 150 feet by 10 feet .
Thing is , it &apos;s owned by the city .
But you have to maintain it .
So I &apos;m like , &quot; &quot; Cool . I can do whatever the hell I want , since it &apos;s my responsibility and I gotta maintain it . &quot; &quot; And this is how I decided to maintain it .
So me and my group , L.A. Green Grounds , we got together and we started planting my food forest , fruit trees , you know , the whole nine , vegetables .
What we do , we &apos;re a pay-it-forward kind of group , where it &apos;s composed of gardeners from all walks of life , from all over the city , and it &apos;s completely volunteer , and everything we do is free .
And the garden , it was beautiful .
And then somebody complained .
The city came down on me , and basically gave me a citation saying that I had to remove my garden , which this citation was turning into a warrant .
And I &apos;m like , &quot; &quot; Come on , really ?
A warrant for planting food on a piece of land that you could care less about ? &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) And I was like , &quot; &quot; Cool . Bring it . &quot; &quot; Because this time it wasn &apos;t coming up .
So L.A. Times got ahold of it . Steve Lopez did a story on it and talked to the councilman , and one of the Green Grounds members , they put up a petition on Change.org , and with 900 signatures , we were a success .
We had a victory on our hands .
My councilman even called in and said how they endorse and love what we &apos;re doing .
I mean , come on , why wouldn &apos;t they ?
L.A. leads the United States in vacant lots that the city actually owns .
They own 26 square miles of vacant lots .
That &apos;s 20 Central Parks .
That &apos;s enough space to plant 725 million tomato plants .
Why in the hell would they not okay this ?
Growing one plant will give you 1,000 , 10,000 seeds .
When one dollar &apos;s worth of green beans will give you 75 dollars &apos; worth of produce .
It &apos;s my gospel , when I &apos;m telling people , grow your own food .
Growing your own food is like printing your own money .
( Applause ) See , I have a legacy in South Central .
I grew up there . I raised my sons there .
And I refuse to be a part of this manufactured reality that was manufactured for me by some other people , and I &apos;m manufacturing my own reality .
See , I &apos;m an artist .
Gardening is my graffiti . I grow my art .
Just like a graffiti artist , where they beautify walls , me , I beautify lawns , parkways .
I use the garden , the soil , like it &apos;s a piece of cloth , and the plants and the trees , that &apos;s my embellishment for that cloth .
You &apos;d be surprised what the soil could do if you let it be your canvas .
You just couldn &apos;t imagine how amazing a sunflower is and how it affects people .
So what happened ?
I have witnessed my garden become a tool for the education , a tool for the transformation of my neighborhood .
To change the community , you have to change the composition of the soil .
We are the soil .
You &apos;d be surprised how kids are affected by this .
Gardening is the most therapeutic and defiant act you can do , especially in the inner city .
Plus you get strawberries .
( Laughter ) I remember this time , there was this mother and a daughter came , it was , like , 10 : 30 at night , and they were in my yard , and I came out and they looked so ashamed .
So I &apos;m like , man , it made me feel bad that they were there , and I told them , you know , you don &apos;t have to do this like this .
This is on the street for a reason .
It made me feel ashamed to see people that were this close to me that were hungry , and this only reinforced why I do this , and people asked me , &quot; &quot; Fin , aren &apos;t you afraid people are going to steal your food ? &quot; &quot; And I &apos;m like , &quot; &quot; Hell no , I ain &apos;t afraid they &apos;re gonna steal it .
That &apos;s why it &apos;s on the street .
That &apos;s the whole idea .
I want them to take it , but at the same time , I want them to take back their health . &quot; &quot; There &apos;s another time when I put a garden in this homeless shelter in downtown Los Angeles .
These are the guys , they helped me unload the truck .
It was cool , and they just shared the stories about how this affected them and how they used to plant with their mother and their grandmother , and it was just cool to see how this changed them , if it was only for that one moment .
So Green Grounds has gone on to plant maybe 20 gardens .
We &apos;ve had , like , 50 people come to our dig-ins and participate , and it &apos;s all volunteers .
If kids grow kale , kids eat kale .
( Laughter ) If they grow tomatoes , they eat tomatoes . ( Applause ) But when none of this is presented to them , if they &apos;re not shown how food affects the mind and the body , they blindly eat whatever the hell you put in front of them .
I see young people and they want to work , but they &apos;re in this thing where they &apos;re caught up — I see kids of color and they &apos;re just on this track that &apos;s designed for them , that leads them to nowhere .
So with gardening , I see an opportunity where we can train these kids to take over their communities , to have a sustainable life .
And when we do this , who knows ?
We might produce the next George Washington Carver .
but if we don &apos;t change the composition of the soil , we will never do this .
Now this is one of my plans . This is what I want to do .
I want to plant a whole block of gardens where people can share in the food in the same block .
I want to take shipping containers and turn them into healthy cafes .
Now don &apos;t get me wrong .
I &apos;m not talking about no free shit , because free is not sustainable .
The funny thing about sustainability , you have to sustain it .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) What I &apos;m talking about is putting people to work , and getting kids off the street , and letting them know the joy , the pride and the honor in growing your own food , opening farmer &apos;s markets .
So what I want to do here , we gotta make this sexy .
So I want us all to become ecolutionary renegades , gangstas , gangsta gardeners .
We gotta flip the script on what a gangsta is .
If you ain &apos;t a gardener , you ain &apos;t gangsta .
Get gangsta with your shovel , okay ?
And let that be your weapon of choice .
( Applause ) So basically , if you want to meet with me , you know , if you want to meet , don &apos;t call me if you want to sit around in cushy chairs and have meetings where you talk about doing some shit — where you talk about doing some shit .
If you want to meet with me , come to the garden with your shovel so we can plant some shit .
Peace . Thank you .
( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause )
I &apos;m a tourism entrepreneur and a peacebuilder , but this is not how I started .
When I was seven years old , I remember watching television and seeing people throwing rocks , and thinking , this must be a fun thing to do .
So I got out to the street and threw rocks , not realizing I was supposed to throw rocks at Israeli cars .
Instead , I ended up stoning my neighbors &apos; cars . ( Laughter ) They were not enthusiastic about my patriotism .
This is my picture with my brother .
This is me , the little one , and I know what you &apos;re thinking : &quot; You used to look cute , what the heck happened to you ? &quot;
But my brother , who is older than me , was arrested when he was 18 , taken to prison on charges of throwing stones .
He was beaten up when he refused to confess that he threw stones , and as a result , had internal injuries that caused his death soon after he was released from prison .
I was angry , I was bitter , and all I wanted was revenge .
But that changed when I was 18 .
I decided that I needed Hebrew to get a job , and going to study Hebrew in that classroom was the first time I ever met Jews who were not soldiers .
And we connected over really small things , like the fact that I love country music , which is really strange for Palestinians .
But it was then that I realized also that we have a wall of anger , of hatred and of ignorance that separates us .
I decided that it doesn &apos;t matter what happens to me .
What really matters is how I deal with it .
And therefore , I decided to dedicate my life to bringing down the walls that separate people .
I do so through many ways .
Tourism is one of them , but also media and education , and you might be wondering , really , can tourism change things ?
Can it bring down walls ? Yes .
Tourism is the best sustainable way to bring down those walls and to create a sustainable way of connecting with each other and creating friendships .
In 2009 , I cofounded Mejdi Tours , a social enterprise that aims to connect people , with two Jewish friends , by the way , and what we &apos;ll do , the model we did , for example , in Jerusalem , we would have two tour guides , one Israeli and one Palestinian , guiding the trips together , telling history and narrative and archaeology and conflict from totally different perspectives .
I remember running a trip together with a friend named Kobi — Jewish congregation from Chicago , the trip was in Jerusalem — and we took them to a refugee camp , a Palestinian refugee camp , and there we had this amazing food .
By the way , this is my mother . She &apos;s cool .
And that &apos;s the Palestinian food called maqluba .
It means &quot; &quot; upside-down . &quot; &quot; You cook it with rice and chicken , and you flip it upside-down .
It &apos;s the best meal ever .
And we &apos;ll eat together .
Then we had a joint band , Israeli and Palestinian musicians , and we did some belly-dancing .
If you don &apos;t know any , I &apos;ll teach you later .
But when we left , both sides , they were crying because they did not want to leave .
Three years later , those relationships still exist .
Imagine with me if the one billion people who travel internationally every year travel like this , not being taken in the bus from one side to another , from one hotel to another , taking pictures from the windows of their buses of people and cultures , but actually connecting with people .
You know , I remember having a Muslim group from the U.K.
going to the house of an Orthodox Jewish family , and having their first Friday night dinners , that Sabbath dinner , and eating together hamin , which is a Jewish food , a stew , just having the connection of realizing , after a while , that a hundred years ago , their families came out of the same place in Northern Africa .
This is not a photo profile for your Facebook .
This is not disaster tourism .
This is the future of travel , and I invite you to join me to do that , to change your travel .
We &apos;re doing it all over the world now , from Ireland to Iran to Turkey , and we see ourselves going everywhere to change the world .
Thank you .
( Applause )
Just after Christmas last year , 132 kids in California got the measles by either visiting Disneyland or being exposed to someone who &apos;d been there .
The virus then hopped the Canadian border , infecting more than 100 children in Quebec .
One of the tragic things about this outbreak is that measles , which can be fatal to a child with a weakened immune system , is one of the most easily preventable diseases in the world .
An effective vaccine against it has been available for more than half a century , but many of the kids involved in the Disneyland outbreak had not been vaccinated because their parents were afraid of something allegedly even worse : autism .
But wait — wasn &apos;t the paper that sparked the controversy about autism and vaccines debunked , retracted , and branded a deliberate fraud by the British Medical Journal ?
Don &apos;t most science-savvy people know that the theory that vaccines cause autism is B.S. ?
I think most of you do , but millions of parents worldwide continue to fear that vaccines put their kids at risk for autism .
Why ?
Here &apos;s why .
This is a graph of autism prevalence estimates rising over time .
For most of the 20th century , autism was considered an incredibly rare condition .
The few psychologists and pediatricians who &apos;d even heard of it figured they would get through their entire careers without seeing a single case .
For decades , the prevalence estimates remained stable at just three or four children in 10,000 .
But then , in the 1990s , the numbers started to skyrocket .
Fundraising organizations like Autism Speaks routinely refer to autism as an epidemic , as if you could catch it from another kid at Disneyland .
So what &apos;s going on ?
If it isn &apos;t vaccines , what is it ?
If you ask the folks down at the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta what &apos;s going on , they tend to rely on phrases like &quot; &quot; broadened diagnostic criteria &quot; &quot; and &quot; &quot; better case finding &quot; &quot; to explain these rising numbers .
But that kind of language doesn &apos;t do much to allay the fears of a young mother who is searching her two-year-old &apos;s face for eye contact .
If the diagnostic criteria had to be broadened , why were they so narrow in the first place ?
Why were cases of autism so hard to find before the 1990s ?
Five years ago , I decided to try to uncover the answers to these questions .
I learned that what happened has less to do with the slow and cautious progress of science than it does with the seductive power of storytelling .
For most of the 20th century , clinicians told one story about what autism is and how it was discovered , but that story turned out to be wrong , and the consequences of it are having a devastating impact on global public health .
There was a second , more accurate story of autism which had been lost and forgotten in obscure corners of the clinical literature .
This second story tells us everything about how we got here and where we need to go next .
The first story starts with a child psychiatrist at Johns Hopkins Hospital named Leo Kanner .
In 1943 , Kanner published a paper describing 11 young patients who seemed to inhabit private worlds , ignoring the people around them , even their own parents .
They could amuse themselves for hours by flapping their hands in front of their faces , but they were panicked by little things like their favorite toy being moved from its usual place without their knowledge .
Based on the patients who were brought to his clinic , Kanner speculated that autism is very rare .
By the 1950s , as the world &apos;s leading authority on the subject , he declared that he had seen less than 150 true cases of his syndrome while fielding referrals from as far away as South Africa .
That &apos;s actually not surprising , because Kanner &apos;s criteria for diagnosing autism were incredibly selective .
For example , he discouraged giving the diagnosis to children who had seizures but now we know that epilepsy is very common in autism .
He once bragged that he had turned nine out of 10 kids referred to his office as autistic by other clinicians without giving them an autism diagnosis .
Kanner was a smart guy , but a number of his theories didn &apos;t pan out .
He classified autism as a form of infantile psychosis caused by cold and unaffectionate parents .
These children , he said , had been kept neatly in a refrigerator that didn &apos;t defrost .
At the same time , however , Kanner noticed that some of his young patients had special abilities that clustered in certain areas like music , math and memory .
One boy in his clinic could distinguish between 18 symphonies before he turned two .
When his mother put on one of his favorite records , he would correctly declare , &quot; &quot; Beethoven ! &quot; &quot; But Kanner took a dim view of these abilities , claiming that the kids were just regurgitating things they &apos;d heard their pompous parents say , desperate to earn their approval .
As a result , autism became a source of shame and stigma for families , and two generations of autistic children were shipped off to institutions for their own good , becoming invisible to the world at large .
Lorna Wing was a cognitive psychologist in London who thought that Kanner &apos;s theory of refrigerator parenting were &quot; &quot; bloody stupid , &quot; &quot; as she told me .
She and her husband John were warm and affectionate people , and they had a profoundly autistic daughter named Susie .
Lorna and John knew how hard it was to raise a child like Susie without support services , special education , and the other resources that are out of reach without a diagnosis .
To make the case to the National Health Service that more resources were needed for autistic children and their families , Lorna and her colleague Judith Gould decided to do something that should have been done 30 years earlier .
They undertook a study of autism prevalence in the general population .
They pounded the pavement in a London suburb called Camberwell to try to find autistic children in the community .
What they saw made clear that Kanner &apos;s model was way too narrow , while the reality of autism was much more colorful and diverse .
Some kids couldn &apos;t talk at all , while others waxed on at length about their fascination with astrophysics , dinosaurs or the genealogy of royalty .
In other words , these children didn &apos;t fit into nice , neat boxes , as Judith put it , and they saw lots of them , way more than Kanner &apos;s monolithic model would have predicted .
At first , they were at a loss to make sense of their data .
How had no one noticed these children before ?
But then Lorna came upon a reference to a paper that had been published in German in 1944 , the year after Kanner &apos;s paper , and then forgotten , buried with the ashes of a terrible time that no one wanted to remember or think about .
Kanner knew about this competing paper , but scrupulously avoided mentioning it in his own work .
It had never even been translated into English , but luckily , Lorna &apos;s husband spoke German , and he translated it for her .
The paper offered an alternate story of autism .
Its author was a man named Hans Asperger , who ran a combination clinic and residential school in Vienna in the 1930s .
Asperger &apos;s ideas about teaching children with learning differences were progressive even by contemporary standards .
Mornings at his clinic began with exercise classes set to music , and the children put on plays on Sunday afternoons .
Instead of blaming parents for causing autism , Asperger framed it as a lifelong , polygenetic disability that requires compassionate forms of support and accommodations over the course of one &apos;s whole life .
Rather than treating the kids in his clinic like patients , Asperger called them his little professors , and enlisted their help in developing methods of education that were particularly suited to them .
Crucially , Asperger viewed autism as a diverse continuum that spans an astonishing range of giftedness and disability .
He believed that autism and autistic traits are common and always have been , seeing aspects of this continuum in familiar archetypes from pop culture like the socially awkward scientist and the absent-minded professor .
He went so far as to say , it seems that for success in science and art , a dash of autism is essential .
Lorna and Judith realized that Kanner had been as wrong about autism being rare as he had been about parents causing it .
Over the next several years , they quietly worked with the American Psychiatric Association to broaden the criteria for diagnosis to reflect the diversity of what they called &quot; &quot; the autism spectrum . &quot; &quot; In the late &apos; 80s and early 1990s , their changes went into effect , swapping out Kanner &apos;s narrow model for Asperger &apos;s broad and inclusive one .
These changes weren &apos;t happening in a vacuum .
By coincidence , as Lorna and Judith worked behind the scenes to reform the criteria , people all over the world were seeing an autistic adult for the first time .
Before &quot; &quot; Rain Man &quot; &quot; came out in 1988 , only a tiny , ingrown circle of experts knew what autism looked like , but after Dustin Hoffman &apos;s unforgettable performance as Raymond Babbitt earned &quot; &quot; Rain Man &quot; &quot; four Academy Awards , pediatricians , psychologists , teachers and parents all over the world knew what autism looked like .
Coincidentally , at the same time , the first easy-to-use clinical tests for diagnosing autism were introduced .
You no longer had to have a connection to that tiny circle of experts to get your child evaluated .
The combination of &quot; &quot; Rain Man , &quot; &quot; the changes to the criteria , and the introduction of these tests created a network effect , a perfect storm of autism awareness .
The number of diagnoses started to soar , just as Lorna and Judith predicted , indeed hoped , that it would , enabling autistic people and their families to finally get the support and services they deserved .
Then Andrew Wakefield came along to blame the spike in diagnoses on vaccines , a simple , powerful , and seductively believable story that was as wrong as Kanner &apos;s theory that autism was rare .
If the CDC &apos;s current estimate , that one in 68 kids in America are on the spectrum , is correct , autistics are one of the largest minority groups in the world .
In recent years , autistic people have come together on the Internet to reject the notion that they are puzzles to be solved by the next medical breakthrough , coining the term &quot; &quot; neurodiversity &quot; &quot; to celebrate the varieties of human cognition .
One way to understand neurodiversity is to think in terms of human operating systems .
By autistic standards , the normal human brain is easily distractable , obsessively social , and suffers from a deficit of attention to detail .
To be sure , autistic people have a hard time living in a world not built for them .
&#91; Seventy &#93; years later , we &apos;re still catching up to Asperger , who believed that the &quot; &quot; cure &quot; &quot; for the most disabling aspects of autism is to be found in understanding teachers , accommodating employers , supportive communities , and parents who have faith in their children &apos;s potential .
An autistic &#91; man &#93; named Zosia Zaks once said , &quot; We need all hands on deck to right the ship of humanity . &quot;
As we sail into an uncertain future , we need every form of human intelligence on the planet working together to tackle the challenges that we face as a society .
We can &apos;t afford to waste a brain .
Thank you .
( Applause )
An evolutionary biologist at Purdue University named William Muir studied chickens .
He was interested in productivity — I think it &apos;s something that concerns all of us — but it &apos;s easy to measure in chickens because you just count the eggs .
( Laughter ) He wanted to know what could make his chickens more productive , so he devised a beautiful experiment .
Chickens live in groups , so first of all , he selected just an average flock , and he let it alone for six generations .
But then he created a second group of the individually most productive chickens — you could call them superchickens — and he put them together in a superflock , and each generation , he selected only the most productive for breeding .
After six generations had passed , what did he find ?
Well , the first group , the average group , was doing just fine .
They were all plump and fully feathered and egg production had increased dramatically .
( Laughter ) The individually productive chickens had only achieved their success by suppressing the productivity of the rest .
Now , as I &apos;ve gone around the world talking about this and telling this story in all sorts of organizations and companies , people have seen the relevance almost instantly , and they come up and they say things to me like , &quot; That superflock , that &apos;s my company . &quot;
( Laughter ) Or , &quot; &quot; That &apos;s my country . &quot; &quot; Or , &quot; &quot; That &apos;s my life . &quot; &quot; All my life I &apos;ve been told that the way we have to get ahead is to compete : get into the right school , get into the right job , get to the top , and I &apos;ve really never found it very inspiring .
I &apos;ve started and run businesses because invention is a joy , and because working alongside brilliant , creative people is its own reward .
And I &apos;ve never really felt very motivated by pecking orders or by superchickens or by superstars .
But for the past 50 years , we &apos;ve run most organizations and some societies along the superchicken model .
We &apos;ve thought that success is achieved by picking the superstars , the brightest men , or occasionally women , in the room , and giving them all the resources and all the power .
And the result has been just the same as in William Muir &apos;s experiment : aggression , dysfunction and waste .
If the only way the most productive can be successful is by suppressing the productivity of the rest , then we badly need to find a better way to work and a richer way to live .
( Applause ) So what is it that makes some groups obviously more successful and more productive than others ?
They brought in hundreds of volunteers , they put them into groups , and they gave them very hard problems to solve .
And what happened was exactly what you &apos;d expect , that some groups were very much more successful than others , but what was really interesting was that the high-achieving groups were not those where they had one or two people with spectacularly high I.Q.
Nor were the most successful groups the ones that had the highest aggregate I.Q.
Instead , they had three characteristics , the really successful teams .
First of all , they showed high degrees of social sensitivity to each other .
This is measured by something called the Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test .
It &apos;s broadly considered a test for empathy , and the groups that scored highly on this did better .
Secondly , the successful groups gave roughly equal time to each other , so that no one voice dominated , but neither were there any passengers .
And thirdly , the more successful groups had more women in them .
( Applause ) Now , was this because women typically score more highly on the Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test , so you &apos;re getting a doubling down on the empathy quotient ?
Or was it because they brought a more diverse perspective ?
We don &apos;t really know , but the striking thing about this experiment is that it showed what we know , which is some groups do better than others , but what &apos;s key to that is their social connectedness to each other .
So how does this play out in the real world ?
Well , it means that what happens between people really counts , because in groups that are highly attuned and sensitive to each other , ideas can flow and grow .
An example : Arup is one of the world &apos;s most successful engineering firms , and it was commissioned to build the equestrian center for the Beijing Olympics .
Now , this building had to receive two and a half thousand really highly strung thoroughbred horses that were coming off long-haul flights , highly jet-lagged , not feeling their finest .
And the problem the engineer confronted was , what quantity of waste to cater for ?
Now , you don &apos;t get taught this in engineering school — ( Laughter ) — and it &apos;s not really the kind of thing you want to get wrong , so he could have spent months talking to vets , doing the research , tweaking the spreadsheet .
Instead , he asked for help and he found someone who had designed the Jockey Club in New York .
The problem was solved in less than a day .
Arup believes that the culture of helpfulness is central to their success .
Now , helpfulness sounds really anemic , but it &apos;s absolutely core to successful teams , and it routinely outperforms individual intelligence .
Helpfulness means I don &apos;t have to know everything , I just have to work among people who are good at getting and giving help .
At SAP , they reckon that you can answer any question in 17 minutes .
But there isn &apos;t a single high-tech company I &apos;ve worked with that imagines for a moment that this is a technology issue , because what drives helpfulness is people getting to know each other .
Now that sounds so obvious , and we think it &apos;ll just happen normally , but it doesn &apos;t .
When I was running my first software company , I realized that we were getting stuck .
There was a lot of friction , but not much else , and I gradually realized the brilliant , creative people that I &apos;d hired didn &apos;t know each other .
They were so focused on their own individual work , they didn &apos;t even know who they were sitting next to , and it was only when I insisted that we stop working and invest time in getting to know each other that we achieved real momentum .
Now , that was 20 years ago , and now I visit companies that have banned coffee cups at desks because they want people to hang out around the coffee machines and talk to each other .
The Swedes even have a special term for this .
They call it fika , which means more than a coffee break .
It means collective restoration .
At Idexx , a company up in Maine , they &apos;ve created vegetable gardens on campus so that people from different parts of the business can work together and get to know the whole business that way .
Have they all gone mad ?
Quite the opposite — they &apos;ve figured out that when the going gets tough , and it always will get tough if you &apos;re doing breakthrough work that really matters , what people need is social support , and they need to know who to ask for help .
Companies don &apos;t have ideas ; only people do .
And what motivates people are the bonds and loyalty and trust they develop between each other .
Now , when you put all of this together , what you get is something called social capital .
Social capital is the reliance and interdependency that builds trust .
Social capital is what gives companies momentum , and social capital is what makes companies robust .
It means that time is everything , because social capital compounds with time .
So teams that work together longer get better , because it takes time to develop the trust you need for real candor and openness .
And time is what builds value .
When Alex Pentland suggested to one company that they synchronize coffee breaks so that people would have time to talk to each other , profits went up 15 million dollars , and employee satisfaction went up 10 percent .
Not a bad return on social capital , which compounds even as you spend it .
Now , this isn &apos;t about chumminess , and it &apos;s no charter for slackers , because people who work this way tend to be kind of scratchy , impatient , absolutely determined to think for themselves because that &apos;s what their contribution is .
Conflict is frequent because candor is safe .
And that &apos;s how good ideas turn into great ideas , because no idea is born fully formed .
It emerges a little bit as a child is born , kind of messy and confused , but full of possibilities .
And it &apos;s only through the generous contribution , faith and challenge that they achieve their potential .
And that &apos;s what social capital supports .
Now , we aren &apos;t really used to talking about this , about talent , about creativity , in this way .
We &apos;re used to talking about stars .
So I started to wonder , well , if we start working this way , does that mean no more stars ?
So I went and I sat in on the auditions at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London .
And what I saw there really surprised me , because the teachers weren &apos;t looking for individual pyrotechnics .
They were looking for what happened between the students , because that &apos;s where the drama is .
And when I talked to producers of hit albums , they said , &quot; &quot; Oh sure , we have lots of superstars in music .
It &apos;s just , they don &apos;t last very long .
It &apos;s the outstanding collaborators who enjoy the long careers , because bringing out the best in others is how they found the best in themselves . &quot; &quot; And when I went to visit companies that are renowned for their ingenuity and creativity , I couldn &apos;t even see any superstars , because everybody there really mattered .
And when I reflected on my own career , and the extraordinary people I &apos;ve had the privilege to work with , I realized how much more we could give each other if we just stopped trying to be superchickens .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Once you appreciate truly how social work is , a lot of things have to change .
Management by talent contest has routinely pitted employees against each other .
Now , rivalry has to be replaced by social capital .
For decades , we &apos;ve tried to motivate people with money , even though we &apos;ve got a vast amount of research that shows that money erodes social connectedness .
Now , we need to let people motivate each other .
And for years , we &apos;ve thought that leaders were heroic soloists who were expected , all by themselves , to solve complex problems .
Now , we need to redefine leadership as an activity in which conditions are created in which everyone can do their most courageous thinking together .
We know that this works .
When the Montreal Protocol called for the phasing out of CFCs , the chlorofluorocarbons implicated in the hole in the ozone layer , the risks were immense .
CFCs were everywhere , and nobody knew if a substitute could be found .
The first was the head of engineering , Frank Maslen , said , there will be no stars in this team .
We need everybody .
Everybody has a valid perspective .
Second , we work to one standard only : the best imaginable .
And third , he told his boss , Geoff Tudhope , that he had to butt out , because he knew how disruptive power can be .
Now , this didn &apos;t mean Tudhope did nothing .
He gave the team air cover , and he listened to ensure that they honored their principles .
And it worked : Ahead of all the other companies tackling this hard problem , this group cracked it first .
And to date , the Montreal Protocol is the most successful international environmental agreement ever implemented .
There was a lot at stake then , and there &apos;s a lot at stake now , and we won &apos;t solve our problems if we expect it to be solved by a few supermen or superwomen .
Now we need everybody , because it is only when we accept that everybody has value that we will liberate the energy and imagination and momentum we need to create the best beyond measure .
Thank you .
( Applause )
( Cheering ) Not good enough .
( Loud cheering ) My name is Maysoon Zayid , and I am not drunk , but the doctor who delivered me was .
He cut my mom six different times in six different directions , suffocating poor little me in the process .
( Laughter ) CP is not genetic .
No one put a curse on my mother &apos;s uterus , and I didn &apos;t get it because my parents are first cousins , which they are .
( Laughter ) It only happens from accidents , like what happened to me on my birth day .
Now , I must warn you , I &apos;m not inspirational .
It &apos;s Christmas Eve , you &apos;re at the mall , you &apos;re driving around in circles looking for parking , and what do you see ?
If there was an Oppression Olympics , I would win the gold medal .
I &apos;m Palestinian , Muslim , I &apos;m female , I &apos;m disabled , and I live in New Jersey .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) If you don &apos;t feel better about yourself , maybe you should . ( Laughter )
I have always loved the fact that my hood and my affliction share the same initials .
A lot of people with CP don &apos;t walk , but my parents didn &apos;t believe in &quot; &quot; can &apos;t . &quot; &quot; My father &apos;s mantra was , &quot; You can do it , yes you can can . &quot;
If my three older sisters went to public school , my parents would sue the school system and guarantee that I went too , and if we didn &apos;t all get A &apos;s , we all got my mother &apos;s slipper .
( Laughter ) My father taught me how to walk when I was five years old by placing my heels on his feet and just walking .
( Laughter ) My inner stripper was very strong . ( Laughter )
Yeah .
I don &apos;t think anyone even noticed we weren &apos;t Italian . ( Laughter )
I learned how to dance in heels , which means I can walk in heels .
And I &apos;m from Jersey , and we are really concerned with being chic , so if my friends wore heels , so did I.
And when my friends went and spent their summer vacations on the Jersey Shore , I did not .
I spent my summers in a war zone , because my parents were afraid that if we didn &apos;t go back to Palestine every single summer , we &apos;d grow up to be Madonna .
( Laughter ) Summer vacations often consisted of my father trying to heal me , so I drank deer &apos;s milk , I had hot cups on my back , I was dunked in the Dead Sea , and I remember the water burning my eyes and thinking , &quot; &quot; It &apos;s working ! It &apos;s working ! &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) But one miracle cure we did find was yoga .
I have to tell you , it &apos;s very boring , but before I did yoga , I was a stand-up comedian who can &apos;t stand up .
My parents reinforced this notion that I could do anything , that no dream was impossible , and my dream was to be on the daytime soap opera &quot; &quot; General Hospital . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) I went to college during affirmative action and got a sweet scholarship to ASU , Arizona State University , because I fit every single quota . ( Laughter )
I did all the less-than-intelligent kids &apos; homework , I got A &apos;s in all of my classes , A &apos;s in all of their classes .
( Laughter ) Every time I did a scene from &quot; &quot; The Glass Menagerie , &quot; &quot; my professors would weep .
But I never got cast .
Finally , my senior year , ASU decided to do a show called &quot; &quot; They Dance Real Slow in Jackson . &quot; &quot; It &apos;s a play about a girl with CP .
So I start shouting from the rooftops , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m finally going to get a part !
I have cerebral palsy !
Thank God almighty , I &apos;m free at last ! &quot; &quot; I didn &apos;t get the part .
I went racing to the head of the theater department crying hysterically , like someone shot my cat , to ask her why , and she said it was because they didn &apos;t think I could do the stunts .
I said , &quot; &quot; Excuse me , if I can &apos;t do the stunts , neither can the character . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) This was a part that I was literally born to play they gave it to a non-palsy actress .
Hollywood has a sordid history of casting able-bodied actors to play disabled onscreen .
My dream was coming true .
And I knew that I would be promoted from &quot; &quot; Diner Diner &quot; &quot; to &quot; &quot; Wacky Best Friend &quot; &quot; in no time .
( Laughter ) But instead , I remained a glorified piece of furniture that you could only recognize from the back of my head , and it became clear to me that casting directors didn &apos;t hire fluffy , ethnic , disabled actors .
They only hired perfect people .
I grew up watching Whoopi Goldberg , Roseanne Barr , Ellen , and all of these women had one thing in common : they were comedians .
So I became a comic .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) My first gig was driving famous comics from New York City to shows in New Jersey , and I &apos;ll never forget the face of the first comic I ever drove when he realized that he was speeding down the New Jersey Turnpike with a chick with CP driving him . ( Laughter )
I &apos;ve performed in clubs all over America , and I &apos;ve also performed in Arabic in the Middle East , uncensored and uncovered . ( Laughter )
I never like to claim first , but I do know that they never heard that nasty little rumor that women aren &apos;t funny , and they find us hysterical .
( Laughter ) In 2003 , my brother from another mother and father Dean Obeidallah and I started the New York Arab-American Comedy Festival , now in its 10th year .
Our goal was to change the negative image of Arab-Americans in media , while also reminding casting directors that South Asian and Arab are not synonymous .
( Laughter ) Mainstreaming Arabs was much , much easier than conquering the challenge against the stigma against disability .
I was invited to be a guest on the cable news show &quot; Countdown with Keith Olbermann . &quot;
I walked in looking like I was going to the prom , and they shuffle me into a studio and seat me on a spinning , rolling chair .
( Laughter ) So I looked at the stage manager and I &apos;m like , &quot; &quot; Excuse me , can I have another chair ? &quot; &quot; And she looked at me and she went , &quot; Five , four , three , two ... &quot;
And we were live , right ?
So I had to grip onto the anchor &apos;s desk so that I wouldn &apos;t roll off the screen during the segment , and when the interview was over , I was livid .
I had finally gotten my chance and I blew it , and I knew I would never get invited back .
But not only did Mr. Olbermann invite me back , he made me a full-time contributor , and he taped down my chair .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) One fun fact I learned while on the air with Keith Olbermann was that humans on the Internet are scumbags . ( Laughter )
Suddenly , my disability on the world wide web is fair game .
I would look at clips online and see comments like , &quot; Yo , why &apos;s she tweakin &apos; ? &quot;
What does she suffer from ?
We should really pray for her . &quot; &quot; One commenter even suggested that I add my disability to my credits : screenwriter , comedian , palsy .
If a wheelchair user can &apos;t play Beyoncé , then Beyoncé can &apos;t play a wheelchair user .
( Applause ) People with disabilities are the largest minority in the world , and we are the most underrepresented in entertainment .
I hope that together , we can create more positive images of disability in the media and in everyday life .
Maybe it still takes a village to teach our children well .
My crooked journey has taken me to some very spectacular places .
I got to walk the red carpet flanked by soap diva Susan Lucci and the iconic Loreen Arbus .
I got to act in a movie with Adam Sandler and work with my idol , the amazing Dave Matthews .
I toured the world as a headliner on Arabs Gone Wild .
I was a delegate representing the great state of New Jersey at the 2008 DNC .
And I founded Maysoon &apos;s Kids , a charity that hopes to give Palestinian refugee children a sliver of the chance my parents gave me .
But the one moment that stands out the most was when I got — before this moment — ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) But the one moment that stands out the most was when I got to perform for the man who floats like a butterfly and stings like a bee , has Parkinson &apos;s and shakes just like me , Muhammad Ali . ( Applause )
( English ) My name is Maysoon Zayid , and if I can can , you can can .
It is also my great lifelong love and fascination .
And I don &apos;t expect that that &apos;s ever going to change .
But , that said , something kind of peculiar has happened recently in my life and in my career , which has caused me to have to recalibrate my whole relationship with this work .
And the peculiar thing is that I recently wrote this book , this memoir called &quot; &quot; Eat , Pray , Love &quot; &quot; which , decidedly unlike any of my previous books , went out in the world for some reason , and became this big , mega-sensation , international bestseller thing .
The result of which is that everywhere I go now , people treat me like I &apos;m doomed .
Seriously — doomed , doomed !
Like , they come up to me now , all worried , and they say , &quot; &quot; Aren &apos;t you afraid you &apos;re never going to be able to top that ?
Aren &apos;t you afraid you &apos;re going to keep writing for your whole life and you &apos;re never again going to create a book that anybody in the world cares about at all , ever again ? &quot; &quot; So that &apos;s reassuring , you know .
But it would be worse , except for that I happen to remember that over 20 years ago , when I was a teenager , when I first started telling people that I wanted to be a writer , I was met with this same sort of fear-based reaction .
And people would say , &quot; &quot; Aren &apos;t you afraid you &apos;re never going to have any success ?
Aren &apos;t you afraid the humiliation of rejection will kill you ?
Aren &apos;t you afraid that you &apos;re going to work your whole life at this craft and nothing &apos;s ever going to come of it and you &apos;re going to die on a scrap heap of broken dreams with your mouth filled with bitter ash of failure ? &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Like that , you know .
The answer — the short answer to all those questions is , &quot; &quot; Yes . &quot; &quot; Yes , I &apos;m afraid of all those things .
And I always have been .
And I &apos;m afraid of many , many more things besides that people can &apos;t even guess at , like seaweed and other things that are scary .
But , when it comes to writing , the thing that I &apos;ve been sort of thinking about lately , and wondering about lately , is why ?
And what is it specifically about creative ventures that seems to make us really nervous about each other &apos;s mental health in a way that other careers kind of don &apos;t do , you know ?
Like my dad , for example , was a chemical engineer and I don &apos;t recall once in his 40 years of chemical engineering anybody asking him if he was afraid to be a chemical engineer , you know ?
&quot; That chemical-engineering block , John , how &apos;s it going ? &quot;
It just didn &apos;t come up like that , you know ?
But to be fair , chemical engineers as a group haven &apos;t really earned a reputation over the centuries for being alcoholic manic-depressives .
( Laughter ) We writers , we kind of do have that reputation , and not just writers , but creative people across all genres , it seems , have this reputation for being enormously mentally unstable .
And all you have to do is look at the very grim death count in the 20th century alone , of really magnificent creative minds who died young and often at their own hands , you know ?
And even the ones who didn &apos;t literally commit suicide seem to be really undone by their gifts , you know .
Norman Mailer , just before he died , last interview , he said , &quot; Every one of my books has killed me a little more . &quot;
An extraordinary statement to make about your life &apos;s work .
But we don &apos;t even blink when we hear somebody say this , because we &apos;ve heard that kind of stuff for so long and somehow we &apos;ve completely internalized and accepted collectively this notion that creativity and suffering are somehow inherently linked and that artistry , in the end , will always ultimately lead to anguish .
And the question that I want to ask everybody here today is are you guys all cool with that idea ?
Are you comfortable with that ?
Because you look at it even from an inch away and , you know — I &apos;m not at all comfortable with that assumption .
I think it &apos;s odious .
And I also think it &apos;s dangerous , and I don &apos;t want to see it perpetuated into the next century .
And I definitely know that , in my case — in my situation — it would be very dangerous for me to start sort of leaking down that dark path of assumption , particularly given the circumstance that I &apos;m in right now in my career .
I still have maybe another four decades of work left in me .
And it &apos;s exceedingly likely that anything I write from this point forward is going to be judged by the world as the work that came after the freakish success of my last book , right ?
I should just put it bluntly , because we &apos;re all sort of friends here now — it &apos;s exceedingly likely that my greatest success is behind me .
So Jesus , what a thought !
That &apos;s the kind of thought that could lead a person to start drinking gin at nine o &apos;clock in the morning , and I don &apos;t want to go there .
( Laughter ) I would prefer to keep doing this work that I love .
And so , it seems to me , upon a lot of reflection , that the way that I have to work now , in order to continue writing , is that I have to create some sort of protective psychological construct , right ?
I have to sort of find some way to have a safe distance between me , as I am writing , and my very natural anxiety about what the reaction to that writing is going to be , from now on .
And , as I &apos;ve been looking , over the last year , for models for how to do that , I &apos;ve been sort of looking across time , and I &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have had better and saner ideas than we have about how to help creative people sort of manage the inherent emotional risks of creativity .
And that search has led me to ancient Greece and ancient Rome .
So stay with me , because it does circle around and back .
But , ancient Greece and ancient Rome — people did not happen to believe that creativity came from human beings back then , OK ?
People believed that creativity was this divine attendant spirit that came to human beings from some distant and unknowable source , for distant and unknowable reasons .
The Greeks famously called these divine attendant spirits of creativity &quot; &quot; daemons . &quot; &quot; Socrates , famously , believed that he had a daemon who spoke wisdom to him from afar .
The Romans had the same idea , but they called that sort of disembodied creative spirit a genius .
Which is great , because the Romans did not actually think that a genius was a particularly clever individual .
They believed that a genius was this , sort of magical divine entity , who was believed to literally live in the walls of an artist &apos;s studio , kind of like Dobby the house elf , and who would come out and sort of invisibly assist the artist with their work and would shape the outcome of that work .
So brilliant — there it is , right there , that distance that I &apos;m talking about — that psychological construct to protect you from the results of your work .
And everyone knew that this is how it functioned , right ?
So the ancient artist was protected from certain things , like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
If your work was brilliant , you couldn &apos;t take all the credit for it , everybody knew that you had this disembodied genius who had helped you .
If your work bombed , not entirely your fault , you know ?
Everyone knew your genius was kind of lame .
( Laughter ) And this is how people thought about creativity in the West for a really long time .
And then the Renaissance came and everything changed , and we had this big idea , and the big idea was , let &apos;s put the individual human being at the center of the universe above all gods and mysteries , and there &apos;s no more room for mystical creatures who take dictation from the divine .
And it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from the self of the individual .
And for the first time in history , you start to hear people referring to this or that artist as being a genius , rather than having a genius .
And I got to tell you , I think that was a huge error .
You know , I think that allowing somebody , one mere person to believe that he or she is like , the vessel , you know , like the font and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknowable , eternal mystery is just a smidge too much responsibility to put on one fragile , human psyche .
It &apos;s like asking somebody to swallow the sun .
It just completely warps and distorts egos , and it creates all these unmanageable expectations about performance .
And I think the pressure of that has been killing off our artists for the last 500 years .
And , if this is true , and I think it is true , the question becomes , what now ?
Can we do this differently ?
Maybe go back to some more ancient understanding about the relationship between humans and the creative mystery .
Maybe not .
Maybe we can &apos;t just erase 500 years of rational humanistic thought in one 18 minute speech .
And there &apos;s probably people in this audience who would raise really legitimate scientific suspicions about the notion of , basically , fairies who follow people around rubbing fairy juice on their projects and stuff .
I &apos;m not , probably , going to bring you all along with me on this .
But the question that I kind of want to pose is — you know , why not ?
Why not think about it this way ?
Because it makes as much sense as anything else I have ever heard in terms of explaining the utter maddening capriciousness of the creative process .
A process which , as anybody who has ever tried to make something — which is to say basically everyone here — - knows does not always behave rationally .
And , in fact , can sometimes feel downright paranormal .
I had this encounter recently where I met the extraordinary American poet Ruth Stone , who &apos;s now in her 90s , but she &apos;s been a poet her entire life and she told me that when she was growing up in rural Virginia , she would be out working in the fields , and she said she would feel and hear a poem coming at her from over the landscape .
And she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
And it would come barreling down at her over the landscape .
And she felt it coming , because it would shake the earth under her feet .
She knew that she had only one thing to do at that point , and that was to , in her words , &quot; &quot; run like hell . &quot; &quot; And she would run like hell to the house and she would be getting chased by this poem , and the whole deal was that she had to get to a piece of paper and a pencil fast enough so that when it thundered through her , she could collect it and grab it on the page .
And other times she wouldn &apos;t be fast enough , so she &apos;d be running and running , and she wouldn &apos;t get to the house and the poem would barrel through her and she would miss it and she said it would continue on across the landscape , looking , as she put it &quot; &quot; for another poet . &quot; &quot; And then there were these times — this is the piece I never forgot — she said that there were moments where she would almost miss it , right ?
So , she &apos;s running to the house and she &apos;s looking for the paper and the poem passes through her , and she grabs a pencil just as it &apos;s going through her , and then she said , it was like she would reach out with her other hand and she would catch it .
She would catch the poem by its tail , and she would pull it backwards into her body as she was transcribing on the page .
And in these instances , the poem would come up on the page perfect and intact but backwards , from the last word to the first .
( Laughter ) So when I heard that I was like — that &apos;s uncanny , that &apos;s exactly what my creative process is like . ( Laughter )
That &apos;s not at all what my creative process is — I &apos;m not the pipeline !
I &apos;m a mule , and the way that I have to work is I have to get up at the same time every day , and sweat and labor and barrel through it really awkwardly .
But even I , in my mulishness , even I have brushed up against that thing , at times .
And I would imagine that a lot of you have too .
You know , even I have had work or ideas come through me from a source that I honestly cannot identify .
And what is that thing ?
And how are we to relate to it in a way that will not make us lose our minds , but , in fact , might actually keep us sane ?
And for me , the best contemporary example that I have of how to do that is the musician Tom Waits , who I got to interview several years ago on a magazine assignment .
And we were talking about this , and you know , Tom , for most of his life , he was pretty much the embodiment of the tormented contemporary modern artist , trying to control and manage and dominate these sort of uncontrollable creative impulses that were totally internalized .
But then he got older , he got calmer , and one day he was driving down the freeway in Los Angeles , and this is when it all changed for him .
And he &apos;s speeding along , and all of a sudden he hears this little fragment of melody , that comes into his head as inspiration often comes , elusive and tantalizing , and he wants it , it &apos;s gorgeous , and he longs for it , but he has no way to get it .
So he starts to feel all of that old anxiety start to rise in him like , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m going to lose this thing , and I &apos;ll be be haunted by this song forever .
He just looked up at the sky , and he said , &quot; Excuse me , can you not see that I &apos;m driving ? &quot;
( Laughter ) &quot; &quot; Do I look like I can write down a song right now ?
If you really want to exist , come back at a more opportune moment when I can take care of you .
Otherwise , go bother somebody else today .
Go bother Leonard Cohen . &quot; &quot; And his whole work process changed after that .
Not the work , the work was still oftentimes as dark as ever .
But the process , and the heavy anxiety around it was released when he took the genie , the genius out of him where it was causing nothing but trouble , and released it back where it came from , and realized that this didn &apos;t have to be this internalized , tormented thing .
It could be this peculiar , wondrous , bizarre collaboration , kind of conversation between Tom and the strange , external thing that was not quite Tom .
When I heard that story , it started to shift a little bit the way that I worked too , and this idea already saved me once .
It saved me when I was in the middle of writing &quot; &quot; Eat , Pray , Love , &quot; &quot; and I fell into one of those sort of pits of despair that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it &apos;s not coming and you start to think this is going to be a disaster , the worst book ever written .
And I started to think I should just dump this project .
But then I remembered Tom talking to the open air and I tried it .
So I just lifted my face up from the manuscript and I directed my comments to an empty corner of the room .
And I said aloud , &quot; &quot; Listen you , thing , you and I both know that if this book isn &apos;t brilliant that is not entirely my fault , right ?
Because you can see that I am putting everything I have into this , I don &apos;t have any more than this .
If you want it to be better , you &apos;ve got to show up and do your part of the deal .
But if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , the hell with it .
I &apos;m going to keep writing anyway because that &apos;s my job .
And I would please like the record to reflect today that I showed up for my part of the job . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) Because — ( Applause ) Because in the end it &apos;s like this , OK — centuries ago in the deserts of North Africa , people used to gather for these moonlight dances of sacred dance and music that would go on for hours and hours , until dawn .
They were always magnificent , because the dancers were professionals and they were terrific , right ?
But every once in a while , very rarely , something would happen , and one of these performers would actually become transcendent .
And I know you know what I &apos;m talking about , because I know you &apos;ve all seen , at some point in your life , a performance like this .
It was like time would stop , and the dancer would sort of step through some kind of portal and he wasn &apos;t doing anything different than he had ever done , 1,000 nights before , but everything would align .
And all of a sudden , he would no longer appear to be merely human .
He would be lit from within , and lit from below and all lit up on fire with divinity .
And when this happened , back then , people knew it for what it was , you know , they called it by its name .
They would put their hands together and they would start to chant , &quot; Allah , Allah , Allah , God , God , God . &quot;
That &apos;s God , you know .
Curious historical footnote : when the Moors invaded southern Spain , they took this custom with them and the pronunciation changed over the centuries from &quot; &quot; Allah , Allah , Allah , &quot; &quot; to &quot; &quot; Olé , olé , olé , &quot; &quot; which you still hear in bullfights and in flamenco dances .
In Spain , when a performer has done something impossible and magic , &quot; Allah , olé , olé , Allah , magnificent , bravo , &quot; incomprehensible , there it is — a glimpse of God .
Which is great , because we need that .
But , the tricky bit comes the next morning , for the dancer himself , when he wakes up and discovers that it &apos;s Tuesday at 11 a.m. , and he &apos;s no longer a glimpse of God .
He &apos;s just an aging mortal with really bad knees , and maybe he &apos;s never going to ascend to that height again .
And maybe nobody will ever chant God &apos;s name again as he spins , and what is he then to do with the rest of his life ?
This is hard .
This is one of the most painful reconciliations to make in a creative life .
But maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be quite so full of anguish if you never happened to believe , in the first place , that the most extraordinary aspects of your being came from you .
But maybe if you just believed that they were on loan to you from some unimaginable source for some exquisite portion of your life to be passed along when you &apos;re finished , with somebody else .
And , you know , if we think about it this way , it starts to change everything .
This is how I &apos;ve started to think , and this is certainly how I &apos;ve been thinking in the last few months as I &apos;ve been working on the book that will soon be published , as the dangerously , frighteningly over-anticipated follow up to my freakish success .
And what I have to sort of keep telling myself when I get really psyched out about that is don &apos;t be afraid .
Don &apos;t be daunted . Just do your job .
Continue to show up for your piece of it , whatever that might be .
If your job is to dance , do your dance .
If the divine , cockeyed genius assigned to your case decides to let some sort of wonderment be glimpsed , for just one moment through your efforts , then &quot; &quot; Olé ! &quot; &quot; And if not , do your dance anyhow .
And &quot; &quot; Olé ! &quot; &quot; to you , nonetheless .
I believe this and I feel that we must teach it .
&quot; &quot; Olé ! &quot; &quot; to you , nonetheless , just for having the sheer human love and stubbornness to keep showing up .
Thank you .
( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause )
June Cohen : Olé ! ( Applause )
Is there a real you ?
This might seem to you like a very odd question .
Because , you might ask , how do we find the real you , how do you know what the real you is ?
And so forth .
But the idea that there must be a real you , surely that &apos;s obvious .
If there &apos;s anything real in the world , it &apos;s you .
Well , I &apos;m not quite sure .
At least we have to understand a bit better what that means .
Now certainly , I think there are lots of things in our culture around us which sort of reinforce the idea that for each one of us , we have a kind of a core , an essence .
There is something about what it means to be you which defines you , and it &apos;s kind of permanent and unchanging .
The most kind of crude way in which we have it , are things like horoscopes .
You know , people are very wedded to these , actually .
People put them on their Facebook profile as though they are meaningul , you even know your Chinese horoscope as well .
There are also more scientific versions of this , all sorts of ways of profiling personality type , such as the Myers-Briggs tests , for example .
I don &apos;t know if you &apos;ve done those .
A lot of companies use these for recruitment .
You answer a lot of questions , and this is supposed to reveal something about your core personality .
And of course , the popular fascination with this is enormous .
In magazines like this , you &apos;ll see , in the bottom left corner , they &apos;ll advertise in virtually every issue some kind of personality thing .
And if you pick up one of those magazines , it &apos;s hard to resist , isn &apos;t it ?
Doing the test to find what is your learning style , what is your loving style , or what is your working style ?
Are you this kind of person or that ?
So I think that we have a common-sense idea that there is a kind of core or essence of ourselves to be discovered .
And that this is kind of a permanent truth about ourselves , something that &apos;s the same throughout life .
Well , that &apos;s the idea I want to challenge .
And I have to say now , I &apos;ll say it a bit later , but I &apos;m not challenging this just because I &apos;m weird , the challenge actually has a very , very long and distinguished history .
Here &apos;s the common-sense idea .
There is you .
You are the individuals you are , and you have this kind of core .
Now in your life , what happens is that you , of course , accumulate different experiences and so forth .
So you have memories , and these memories help to create what you are .
You have desires , maybe for a cookie , maybe for something that we don &apos;t want to talk about at 11 o &apos;clock in the morning in a school .
You will have beliefs .
This is a number plate from someone in America .
I don &apos;t know whether this number plate , which says &quot; &quot; messiah 1 , &quot; &quot; indicates that the driver believes in the messiah , or that they are the messiah .
Either way , they have beliefs about messiahs .
We have knowledge .
We have sensations and experiences as well .
It &apos;s not just intellectual things .
So this is kind of the common-sense model , I think , of what a person is .
There is a person who has all the things that make up our life experiences .
But the suggestion I want to put to you today is that there &apos;s something fundamentally wrong with this model .
And I can show you what &apos;s wrong with one click .
Which is there isn &apos;t actually a &quot; &quot; you &quot; &quot; at the heart of all these experiences .
Strange thought ? Well , maybe not .
What is there , then ?
Well , clearly there are memories , desires , intentions , sensations , and so forth .
But what happens is these things exist , and they &apos;re kind of all integrated , they &apos;re overlapped , they &apos;re connected in various different ways .
They &apos;re connecting partly , and perhaps even mainly , because they all belong to one body and one brain .
But there &apos;s also a narrative , a story we tell about ourselves , the experiences we have when we remember past things .
We do things because of other things .
So what we desire is partly a result of what we believe , and what we remember is also informing us what we know .
And so really , there are all these things , like beliefs , desires , sensations , experiences , they &apos;re all related to each other , and that just is you .
In some ways , it &apos;s a small difference from the common-sense understanding .
In some ways , it &apos;s a massive one .
It &apos;s the shift between thinking of yourself as a thing which has all the experiences of life , and thinking of yourself as simply that collection of all experiences in life .
You are the sum of your parts .
Now those parts are also physical parts , of course , brains , bodies and legs and things , but they aren &apos;t so important , actually .
If you have a heart transplant , you &apos;re still the same person .
If you have a memory transplant , are you the same person ?
If you have a belief transplant , would you be the same person ?
Now this idea , that what we are , the way to understand ourselves , is as not of some permanent being , which has experiences , but is kind of a collection of experiences , might strike you as kind of weird .
But actually , I don &apos;t think it should be weird .
In a way , it &apos;s common sense .
Because I just invite you to think about , by comparison , think about pretty much anything else in the universe , maybe apart from the very most fundamental forces or powers .
Let &apos;s take something like water .
Now my science isn &apos;t very good .
We might say something like water has two parts hydrogen and one parts oxygen , right ?
We all know that .
I hope no one in this room thinks that what that means is there is a thing called water , and attached to it are hydrogen and oxygen atoms , and that &apos;s what water is .
Of course we don &apos;t .
We understand , very easily , very straightforwardly , that water is nothing more than the hydrogen and oxygen molecules suitably arranged .
Everything else in the universe is the same .
There &apos;s no mystery about my watch , for example .
We say the watch has a face , and hands , and a mechanism and a battery , But what we really mean is , we don &apos;t think there is a thing called the watch to which we then attach all these bits .
We understand very clearly that you get the parts of the watch , you put them together , and you create a watch .
Now if everything else in the universe is like this , why are we different ?
Why think of ourselves as somehow not just being a collection of all our parts , but somehow being a separate , permanent entity which has those parts ?
Now this view is not particularly new , actually .
It has quite a long lineage .
You find it in Buddhism , you find it in 17th , 18th-century philosophy going through to the current day , people like Locke and Hume .
But interestingly , it &apos;s also a view increasingly being heard reinforced by neuroscience .
This is Paul Broks , he &apos;s a clinical neuropsychologist , and he says this : &quot; &quot; We have a deep intuition that there is a core , an essence there , and it &apos;s hard to shake off , probably impossible to shake off , I suspect .
But it &apos;s true that neuroscience shows that there is no centre in the brain where things do all come together . &quot; &quot; So when you look at the brain , and you look at how the brain makes possible a sense of self , you find that there isn &apos;t a central control spot in the brain .
There is no kind of center where everything happens .
There are lots of different processes in the brain , all of which operate , in a way , quite independently .
But it &apos;s because of the way that they relate that we get this sense of self .
The term I use in the book , I call it the ego trick .
It &apos;s like a mechanical trick .
It &apos;s not that we don &apos;t exist , it &apos;s just that the trick is to make us feel that inside of us is something more unified than is really there .
Now you might think this is a worrying idea .
You might think that if it &apos;s true , that for each one of us there is no abiding core of self , no permanent essence , does that mean that really , the self is an illusion ?
Does it mean that we really don &apos;t exist ?
There is no real you .
Well , a lot of people actually do use this talk of illusion and so forth .
These are three psychologists , Thomas Metzinger , Bruce Hood , Susan Blackmore , a lot of these people do talk the language of illusion , the self is an illusion , it &apos;s a fiction .
But I don &apos;t think this is a very helpful way of looking at it .
Go back to the watch .
The watch isn &apos;t an illusion , because there is nothing to the watch other than a collection of its parts .
In the same way , we &apos;re not illusions either .
The fact that we are , in some ways , just this very , very complex collection , ordered collection of things , does not mean we &apos;re not real .
I can give you a very sort of rough metaphor for this .
Let &apos;s take something like a waterfall .
These are the Iguazu Falls , in Argentina .
Now if you take something like this , you can appreciate the fact that in lots of ways , there &apos;s nothing permanent about this .
For one thing , it &apos;s always changing .
The waters are always carving new channels .
with changes and tides and the weather , some things dry up , new things are created .
Of course the water that flows through the waterfall is different every single instance .
But it doesn &apos;t mean that the Iguazu Falls are an illusion .
It doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s not real .
What it means is we have to understand what it is as something which has a history , has certain things that keep it together , but it &apos;s a process , it &apos;s fluid , it &apos;s forever changing .
Now that , I think , is a model for understanding ourselves , and I think it &apos;s a liberating model .
Because if you think that you have this fixed , permanent essence , which is always the same , throughout your life , no matter what , in a sense you &apos;re kind of trapped .
You &apos;re born with an essence , that &apos;s what you are until you die , if you believe in an afterlife , maybe you continue .
But if you think of yourself as being , in a way , not a thing as such , but a kind of a process , something that is changing , then I think that &apos;s quite liberating .
Because unlike the the waterfalls , we actually have the capacity to channel the direction of our development for ourselves to a certain degree .
Now we &apos;ve got to be careful here , right ?
If you watch the X-Factor too much , you might buy into this idea that we can all be whatever we want to be .
That &apos;s not true .
I &apos;ve heard some fantastic musicians this morning , and I am very confident that I could in no way be as good as them .
I could practice hard and maybe be good , but I don &apos;t have that really natural ability .
There are limits to what we can achieve .
There are limits to what we can make of ourselves .
But nevertheless , we do have this capacity to , in a sense , shape ourselves .
The true self , as it were then , is not something that is just there for you to discover , you don &apos;t sort of look into your soul and find your true self , What you are partly doing , at least , is actually creating your true self .
And this , I think , is very , very significant , particularly at this stage of life you &apos;re at .
You &apos;ll be aware of the fact how much of you changed over recent years .
If you have any videos of yourself , three or four years ago , you probably feel embarrassed because you don &apos;t recognize yourself .
So I want to get that message over , that what we need to do is think about ourselves as things that we can shape , and channel and change .
This is the Buddha , again : &quot; &quot; Well-makers lead the water , fletchers bend the arrow , carpenters bend a log of wood , wise people fashion themselves . &quot; &quot; And that &apos;s the idea I want to leave you with , that your true self is not something that you will have to go searching for , as a mystery , and maybe never ever find .
To the extent you have a true self , it &apos;s something that you in part discover , but in part create .
and that , I think , is a liberating and exciting prospect .
Thank you very much .
You know , I didn &apos;t set out to be a parenting expert .
In fact , I &apos;m not very interested in parenting , per Se .
It &apos;s just that there &apos;s a certain style of parenting these days that is kind of messing up kids , impeding their chances to develop into theirselves .
There &apos;s a certain style of parenting these days that &apos;s getting in the way .
I guess what I &apos;m saying is , we spend a lot of time being very concerned about parents who aren &apos;t involved enough in the lives of their kids and their education or their upbringing , and rightly so .
But at the other end of the spectrum , there &apos;s a lot of harm going on there as well , where parents feel a kid can &apos;t be successful unless the parent is protecting and preventing at every turn and hovering over every happening , and micromanaging every moment , and steering their kid towards some small subset of colleges and careers .
When we raise kids this way , and I &apos;ll say we , because Lord knows , in raising my two teenagers , I &apos;ve had these tendencies myself , our kids end up leading a kind of checklisted childhood .
And here &apos;s what the checklisted childhood looks like .
We keep them safe and sound and fed and watered , and then we want to be sure they go to the right schools , that they &apos;re in the right classes at the right schools , and that they get the right grades in the right classes in the right schools .
But not just the grades , the scores , and not just the grades and scores , but the accolades and the awards and the sports , the activities , the leadership .
We tell our kids , don &apos;t just join a club , start a club , because colleges want to see that .
And check the box for community service .
I mean , show the colleges you care about others .
( Laughter ) And all of this is done to some hoped-for degree of perfection .
We expect our kids to perform at a level of perfection we were never asked to perform at ourselves , and so because so much is required , we think , well then , of course we parents have to argue with every teacher and principal and coach and referee and act like our kid &apos;s concierge and personal handler and secretary .
And then with our kids , our precious kids , we spend so much time nudging , cajoling , hinting , helping , haggling , nagging as the case may be , to be sure they &apos;re not screwing up , not closing doors , not ruining their future , some hoped-for admission to a tiny handful of colleges that deny almost every applicant .
And here &apos;s what it feels like to be a kid in this checklisted childhood .
First of all , there &apos;s no time for free play .
There &apos;s no room in the afternoons , because everything has to be enriching , we think .
It &apos;s as if every piece of homework , every quiz , every activity is a make-or-break moment for this future we have in mind for them , and we absolve them of helping out around the house , and we even absolve them of getting enough sleep as long as they &apos;re checking off the items on their checklist .
And in the checklisted childhood , we say we just want them to be happy , but when they come home from school , what we ask about all too often first is their homework and their grades .
And they see in our faces that our approval , that our love , that their very worth , comes from A &apos;s .
And then we walk alongside them and offer clucking praise like a trainer at the Westminster Dog Show — ( Laughter ) coaxing them to just jump a little higher and soar a little farther , day after day after day .
And when they get to high school , they don &apos;t say , &quot; &quot; Well , what might I be interested in studying or doing as an activity ? &quot; &quot; They go to counselors and they say , &quot; What do I need to do to get into the right college ? &quot;
And then , when the grades start to roll in in high school , and they &apos;re getting some B &apos;s , or God forbid some C &apos;s , they frantically text their friends and say , &quot; &quot; Has anyone ever gotten into the right college with these grades ? &quot; &quot; And our kids , regardless of where they end up at the end of high school , they &apos;re breathless .
They &apos;re brittle .
They &apos;re a little burned out .
They &apos;re a little old before their time , wishing the grown-ups in their lives had said , &quot; &quot; What you &apos;ve done is enough , this effort you &apos;ve put forth in childhood is enough . &quot; &quot; And they &apos;re withering now under high rates of anxiety and depression and some of them are wondering , will this life ever turn out to have been worth it ?
Well , we parents , we parents are pretty sure it &apos;s all worth it .
We seem to behave — it &apos;s like we literally think they will have no future if they don &apos;t get into one of these tiny set of colleges or careers we have in mind for them .
Or maybe , maybe , we &apos;re just afraid they won &apos;t have a future we can brag about to our friends and with stickers on the backs of our cars .
Yeah .
( Applause ) But if you look at what we &apos;ve done , if you have the courage to really look at it , you &apos;ll see that not only do our kids think their worth comes from grades and scores , but that when we live right up inside their precious developing minds all the time , like our very own version of the movie &quot; &quot; Being John Malkovich , &quot; &quot; we send our children the message : &quot; Hey kid , I don &apos;t think you can actually achieve any of this without me . &quot;
And so with our overhelp , our overprotection and overdirection and hand-holding , we deprive our kids of the chance to build self-efficacy , which is a really fundamental tenet of the human psyche , far more important than that self-esteem they get every time we applaud .
Self-efficacy is built when one sees that one &apos;s own actions lead to outcomes , not — There you go .
( Applause ) Not one &apos;s parents &apos; actions on one &apos;s behalf , but when one &apos;s own actions lead to outcomes .
So simply put , if our children are to develop self-efficacy , and they must , then they have to do a whole lot more of the thinking , planning , deciding , doing , hoping , coping , trial and error , dreaming and experiencing of life for themselves .
Now , am I saying every kid is hard-working and motivated and doesn &apos;t need a parent &apos;s involvement or interest in their lives , and we should just back off and let go ?
Hell no .
( Laughter ) That is not what I &apos;m saying .
What I &apos;m saying is , when we treat grades and scores and accolades and awards as the purpose of childhood , all in furtherance of some hoped-for admission to a tiny number of colleges or entrance to a small number of careers , that that &apos;s too narrow a definition of success for our kids .
And even though we might help them achieve some short-term wins by overhelping — like they get a better grade if we help them do their homework , they might end up with a longer childhood résumé when we help — what I &apos;m saying is that all of this comes at a long-term cost to their sense of self .
What I &apos;m saying is , we should be less concerned with the specific set of colleges they might be able to apply to or might get into and far more concerned that they have the habits , the mindset , the skill set , the wellness , to be successful wherever they go . What I &apos;m saying is ,
our kids need us to be a little less obsessed with grades and scores and a whole lot more interested in childhood providing a foundation for their success built on things like love and chores .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Did I just say chores ? Did I just say chores ? I really did .
But really , here &apos;s why .
The longest longitudinal study of humans ever conducted is called the Harvard Grant Study .
It found that professional success in life , which is what we want for our kids , that professional success in life comes from having done chores as a kid , and the earlier you started , the better , that a roll-up-your-sleeves- and-pitch-in mindset , a mindset that says , there &apos;s some unpleasant work , someone &apos;s got to do it , it might as well be me , a mindset that says , I will contribute my effort to the betterment of the whole , that that &apos;s what gets you ahead in the workplace .
Now , we all know this . You know this .
( Applause ) We all know this , and yet , in the checklisted childhood , we absolve our kids of doing the work of chores around the house , and then they end up as young adults in the workplace still waiting for a checklist , but it doesn &apos;t exist , and more importantly , lacking the impulse , the instinct to roll up their sleeves and pitch in and look around and wonder , how can I be useful to my colleagues ?
How can I anticipate a few steps ahead to what my boss might need ?
A second very important finding from the Harvard Grant Study said that happiness in life comes from love , not love of work , love of humans : our spouse , our partner , our friends , our family .
So childhood needs to teach our kids how to love , and they can &apos;t love others if they don &apos;t first love themselves , and they won &apos;t love themselves if we can &apos;t offer them unconditional love .
( Applause ) Right .
And so , instead of being obsessed with grades and scores when our precious offspring come home from school , or we come home from work , we need to close our technology , put away our phones , and look them in the eye and let them see the joy that fills our faces when we see our child for the first time in a few hours .
And then we have to say , &quot; &quot; How was your day ?
What did you like about today ? &quot; &quot; And when your teenage daughter says , &quot; &quot; Lunch , &quot; &quot; like mine did , and I want to hear about the math test , not lunch , you have to still take an interest in lunch .
You gotta say , &quot; &quot; What was great about lunch today ? &quot; &quot; They need to know they matter to us as humans , not because of their GPA .
All right , so you &apos;re thinking , chores and love , that sounds all well and good , but give me a break .
The colleges want to see top scores and grades and accolades and awards , and I &apos;m going to tell you , sort of .
The very biggest brand-name schools are asking that of our young adults , but here &apos;s the good news .
Contrary to what the college rankings racket would have us believe — ( Applause ) you don &apos;t have to go to one of the biggest brand name schools to be happy and successful in life .
Happy and successful people went to state school , went to a small college no one has heard of , went to community college , went to a college over here and flunked out .
( Applause ) The evidence is in this room , is in our communities , that this is the truth .
And if we could widen our blinders and be willing to look at a few more colleges , maybe remove our own egos from the equation , we could accept and embrace this truth and then realize , it is hardly the end of the world if our kids don &apos;t go to one of those big brand-name schools .
And more importantly , if their childhood has not been lived according to a tyrannical checklist then when they get to college , whichever one it is , well , they &apos;ll have gone there on their own volition , fueled by their own desire , capable and ready to thrive there .
I have to admit something to you .
I &apos;ve got two kids I mentioned , Sawyer and Avery .
They &apos;re teenagers .
And once upon a time , I think I was treating my Sawyer and Avery like little bonsai trees — ( Laughter ) that I was going to carefully clip and prune and shape into some perfect form of a human that might just be perfect enough to warrant them admission to one of the most highly selective colleges .
But I &apos;ve come to realize , after working with thousands of other people &apos;s kids — ( Laughter ) and raising two kids of my own , my kids aren &apos;t bonsai trees .
They &apos;re wildflowers of an unknown genus and species — ( Laughter ) and it &apos;s my job to provide a nourishing environment , to strengthen them through chores and to love them so they can love others and receive love and the college , the major , the career , that &apos;s up to them .
My job is not to make them become what I would have them become , but to support them in becoming their glorious selves .
Thank you .
At every stage of our lives we make decisions that will profoundly influence the lives of the people we &apos;re going to become , and then when we become those people , we &apos;re not always thrilled with the decisions we made .
So young people pay good money to get tattoos removed that teenagers paid good money to get .
Middle-aged people rushed to divorce people who young adults rushed to marry .
Older adults work hard to lose what middle-aged adults worked hard to gain .
On and on and on .
The question is , as a psychologist , that fascinates me is , why do we make decisions that our future selves so often regret ?
Now , I think one of the reasons — I &apos;ll try to convince you today — is that we have a fundamental misconception about the power of time .
Every one of you knows that the rate of change slows over the human lifespan , that your children seem to change by the minute but your parents seem to change by the year .
But what is the name of this magical point in life where change suddenly goes from a gallop to a crawl ?
Is it teenage years ? Is it middle age ?
Is it old age ? The answer , it turns out , for most people , is now , wherever now happens to be .
What I want to convince you today is that all of us are walking around with an illusion , an illusion that history , our personal history , has just come to an end , that we have just recently become the people that we were always meant to be and will be for the rest of our lives .
Let me give you some data to back up that claim .
So here &apos;s a study of change in people &apos;s personal values over time .
Here &apos;s three values .
Everybody here holds all of them , but you probably know that as you grow , as you age , the balance of these values shifts .
So how does it do so ?
Well , we asked thousands of people .
We asked half of them to predict for us how much their values would change in the next 10 years , and the others to tell us how much their values had changed in the last 10 years .
And this enabled us to do a really interesting kind of analysis , because it allowed us to compare the predictions of people , say , 18 years old , to the reports of people who were 28 , and to do that kind of analysis throughout the lifespan .
Here &apos;s what we found .
First of all , you are right , change does slow down as we age , but second , you &apos;re wrong , because it doesn &apos;t slow nearly as much as we think .
At every age , from 18 to 68 in our data set , people vastly underestimated how much change they would experience over the next 10 years .
We call this the &quot; &quot; end of history &quot; &quot; illusion .
To give you an idea of the magnitude of this effect , you can connect these two lines , and what you see here is that 18-year-olds anticipate changing only as much as 50-year-olds actually do .
Now it &apos;s not just values . It &apos;s all sorts of other things .
For example , personality .
Many of you know that psychologists now claim that there are five fundamental dimensions of personality : neuroticism , openness to experience , agreeableness , extraversion , and conscientiousness .
Again , we asked people how much they expected to change over the next 10 years , and also how much they had changed over the last 10 years , and what we found , well , you &apos;re going to get used to seeing this diagram over and over , because once again the rate of change does slow as we age , but at every age , people underestimate how much their personalities will change in the next decade .
And it isn &apos;t just ephemeral things like values and personality .
You can ask people about their likes and dislikes , their basic preferences .
For example , name your best friend , your favorite kind of vacation , what &apos;s your favorite hobby , what &apos;s your favorite kind of music .
People can name these things .
We ask half of them to tell us , &quot; Do you think that that will change over the next 10 years ? &quot;
and half of them to tell us , &quot; Did that change over the last 10 years ? &quot;
And what we find , well , you &apos;ve seen it twice now , and here it is again : people predict that the friend they have now is the friend they &apos;ll have in 10 years , the vacation they most enjoy now is the one they &apos;ll enjoy in 10 years , and yet , people who are 10 years older all say , &quot; Eh , you know , that &apos;s really changed . &quot;
Does any of this matter ?
Is this just a form of mis-prediction that doesn &apos;t have consequences ?
No , it matters quite a bit , and I &apos;ll give you an example of why .
It bedevils our decision-making in important ways .
Bring to mind right now for yourself your favorite musician today and your favorite musician 10 years ago .
I put mine up on the screen to help you along .
Now we asked people to predict for us , to tell us how much money they would pay right now to see their current favorite musician perform in concert 10 years from now , and on average , people said they would pay 129 dollars for that ticket .
And yet , when we asked them how much they would pay to see the person who was their favorite 10 years ago perform today , they say only 80 dollars .
Now , in a perfectly rational world , these should be the same number , but we overpay for the opportunity to indulge our current preferences because we overestimate their stability .
Why does this happen ? We &apos;re not entirely sure , but it probably has to do with the ease of remembering versus the difficulty of imagining .
Most of us can remember who we were 10 years ago , but we find it hard to imagine who we &apos;re going to be , and then we mistakenly think that because it &apos;s hard to imagine , it &apos;s not likely to happen .
Sorry , when people say &quot; &quot; I can &apos;t imagine that , &quot; &quot; they &apos;re usually talking about their own lack of imagination , and not about the unlikelihood of the event that they &apos;re describing .
The bottom line is , time is a powerful force .
It transforms our preferences .
It reshapes our values .
It alters our personalities .
We seem to appreciate this fact , but only in retrospect .
Only when we look backwards do we realize how much change happens in a decade .
It &apos;s as if , for most of us , the present is a magic time .
It &apos;s a watershed on the timeline .
It &apos;s the moment at which we finally become ourselves .
Human beings are works in progress that mistakenly think they &apos;re finished .
The person you are right now is as transient , as fleeting and as temporary as all the people you &apos;ve ever been .
The one constant in our life is change .
Thank you .
( Applause )
It &apos;s often said that you can tell a lot about a person by looking at what &apos;s on their bookshelves .
What do my bookshelves say about me ?
Well , when I asked myself this question a few years ago , I made an alarming discovery .
I &apos;d always thought of myself as a fairly cultured , cosmopolitan sort of person .
But my bookshelves told a rather different story .
Pretty much all the titles on them were by British or North American authors , and there was almost nothing in translation .
Discovering this massive , cultural blind spot in my reading came as quite a shock .
And when I thought about it , it seemed like a real shame .
I knew there had to be lots of amazing stories out there by writers working in languages other than English .
And it seemed really sad to think that my reading habits meant I would probably never encounter them .
So , I decided to prescribe myself an intensive course of global reading .
2012 was set to be a very international year for the UK ; it was the year of the London Olympics .
And so I decided to use it as my time frame to try to read a novel , short story collection or memoir from every country in the world .
And so I did .
And it was very exciting and I learned some remarkable things and made some wonderful connections that I want to share with you today .
But it started with some practical problems .
After I &apos;d worked out which of the many different lists of countries in the world to use for my project , I ended up going with the list of UN-recognized nations , to which I added Taiwan , which gave me a total of 196 countries .
And after I &apos;d worked out how to fit reading and blogging about , roughly , four books a week around working five days a week , I then had to face up to the fact that I might even not be able to get books in English from every country .
Only around 4.5 percent of the literary works published each year in the UK are translations , and the figures are similar for much of the English-speaking world .
Although , the proportion of translated books published in many other countries is a lot higher .
4.5 percent is tiny enough to start with , but what that figure doesn &apos;t tell you is that many of those books will come from countries with strong publishing networks and lots of industry professionals primed to go out and sell those titles to English-language publishers .
So , for example , although well over 100 books are translated from French and published in the UK each year , most of them will come from countries like France or Switzerland .
French-speaking Africa , on the other hand , will rarely ever get a look-in .
The upshot is that there are actually quite a lot of nations that may have little or even no commercially available literature in English .
Their books remain invisible to readers of the world &apos;s most published language .
Having spent my life reading almost exclusively British and North American books , I had no idea how to go about sourcing and finding stories and choosing them from much of the rest of the world .
I couldn &apos;t tell you how to source a story from Swaziland .
I wouldn &apos;t know a good novel from Namibia .
There was no hiding it — I was a clueless literary xenophobe .
So how on earth was I going to read the world ?
I was going to have to ask for help .
So in October 2011 , I registered my blog , ayearofreadingtheworld.com , and I posted a short appeal online .
I explained who I was , how narrow my reading had been , and I asked anyone who cared to to leave a message suggesting what I might read from other parts of the planet .
Now , I had no idea whether anyone would be interested , but within a few hours of me posting that appeal online , people started to get in touch .
At first , it was friends and colleagues .
Then it was friends of friends .
And pretty soon , it was strangers .
Four days after I put that appeal online , I got a message from a woman called Rafidah in Kuala Lumpur .
She said she loved the sound of my project , could she go to her local English-language bookshop and choose my Malaysian book and post it to me ?
I accepted enthusiastically , and a few weeks later , a package arrived containing not one , but two books — Rafidah &apos;s choice from Malaysia , and a book from Singapore that she had also picked out for me .
Now , at the time , I was amazed that a stranger more than 6,000 miles away would go to such lengths to help someone she would probably never meet .
But Rafidah &apos;s kindness proved to be the pattern for that year .
Time and again , people went out of their way to help me .
Some took on research on my behalf , and others made detours on holidays and business trips to go to bookshops for me .
It turns out , if you want to read the world , if you want to encounter it with an open mind , the world will help you .
When it came to countries with little or no commercially available literature in English , people went further still .
Books often came from surprising sources .
My Panamanian read , for example , came through a conversation I had with the Panama Canal on Twitter .
Yes , the Panama Canal has a Twitter account .
And when I tweeted at it about my project , it suggested that I might like to try and get hold of the work of the Panamanian author Juan David Morgan .
I found Morgan &apos;s website and I sent him a message , asking if any of his Spanish-language novels had been translated into English .
And he said that nothing had been published , but he did have an unpublished translation of his novel &quot; &quot; The Golden Horse . &quot; &quot; He emailed this to me , allowing me to become one of the first people ever to read that book in English .
Morgan was by no means the only wordsmith to share his work with me in this way .
From Sweden to Palau , writers and translators sent me self-published books and unpublished manuscripts of books that hadn &apos;t been picked up by Anglophone publishers or that were no longer available , giving me privileged glimpses of some remarkable imaginary worlds .
I read , for example , about the Southern African king Ngungunhane , who led the resistance against the Portuguese in the 19th century ; and about marriage rituals in a remote village on the shores of the Caspian sea in Turkmenistan .
I met Kuwait &apos;s answer to Bridget Jones .
( Laughter ) And I read about an orgy in a tree in Angola .
But perhaps the most amazing example of the lengths that people were prepared to go to to help me read the world , came towards the end of my quest , when I tried to get hold of a book from the tiny , Portuguese-speaking African island nation of São Tomé and Príncipe .
Now , having spent several months trying everything I could think of to find a book that had been translated into English from the nation , it seemed as though the only option left to me was to see if I could get something translated for me from scratch .
Now , I was really dubious whether anyone was going to want to help with this , and give up their time for something like that .
But , within a week of me putting a call out on Twitter and Facebook for Portuguese speakers , I had more people than I could involve in the project , including Margaret Jull Costa , a leader in her field , who has translated the work of Nobel Prize winner José Saramago .
With my nine volunteers in place , I managed to find a book by a São Toméan author that I could buy enough copies of online .
Here &apos;s one of them .
And I sent a copy out to each of my volunteers .
They all took on a couple of short stories from this collection , stuck to their word , sent their translations back to me , and within six weeks , I had the entire book to read .
In that case , as I found so often during my year of reading the world , my not knowing and being open about my limitations had become a big opportunity .
When it came to São Tomé and Príncipe , it was a chance not only to learn something new and discover a new collection of stories , but also to bring together a group of people and facilitate a joint creative endeavor .
My weakness had become the project &apos;s strength .
The books I read that year opened my eyes to many things .
As those who enjoy reading will know , books have an extraordinary power to take you out of yourself and into someone else &apos;s mindset , so that , for a while at least , you look at the world through different eyes .
That can be an uncomfortable experience , particularly if you &apos;re reading a book from a culture that may have quite different values to your own .
But it can also be really enlightening .
Wrestling with unfamiliar ideas can help clarify your own thinking .
And it can also show up blind spots in the way you might have been looking at the world .
When I looked back at much of the English-language literature I &apos;d grown up with , for example , I began to see how narrow a lot of it was , compared to the richness that the world has to offer .
And as the pages turned , something else started to happen , too .
Little by little , that long list of countries that I &apos;d started the year with , changed from a rather dry , academic register of place names into living , breathing entities .
Now , I don &apos;t want to suggest that it &apos;s at all possible to get a rounded picture of a country simply by reading one book .
But cumulatively , the stories I read that year made me more alive than ever before to the richness , diversity and complexity of our remarkable planet .
It was as though the world &apos;s stories and the people who &apos;d gone to such lengths to help me read them had made it real to me .
These days , when I look at my bookshelves or consider the works on my e-reader , they tell a rather different story .
It &apos;s the story of the power books have to connect us across political , geographical , cultural , social , religious divides .
It &apos;s the tale of the potential human beings have to work together .
And , it &apos;s testament to the extraordinary times we live in , where , thanks to the Internet , it &apos;s easier than ever before for a stranger to share a story , a worldview , a book with someone she may never meet , on the other side of the planet .
I hope it &apos;s a story I &apos;m reading for many years to come .
And I hope many more people will join me .
If we all read more widely , there &apos;d be more incentive for publishers to translate more books , and we would all be richer for that .
Thank you .
( Applause )
Have you ever noticed when you ask someone to talk about a change they &apos;re making for the better in their personal lives , they &apos;re often really energetic ?
Whether it &apos;s training for a marathon , picking up an old hobby , or learning a new skill , for most people , self-transformation projects occupy a very positive emotional space .
Self-transformation is empowering , energizing , even exhilarating .
I mean just take a look at some of the titles of self-help books : &quot; Awaken the Giant Within , &quot; &quot; Practicing the Power of Now , &quot; or here &apos;s a great one we can all relate to , &quot; &quot; You are a Badass : How to Stop Doubting Your Greatness and Start Living an Awesome Life . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) When it comes to self-transformation , you can &apos;t help but get a sense of the excitement .
But there &apos;s another type of transformation that occupies a very different emotional space .
The transformation of organizations .
If you &apos;re like most people , when you hear the words &quot; &quot; Our organization is going to start a transformation , &quot; &quot; you &apos;re thinking , &quot; &quot; Uh-oh . &quot; &quot; ( Laughter ) &quot; Layoffs . &quot;
The blood drains from your face , your mind goes into overdrive , frantically searching for some place to run and hide .
Well , you can run , but you really can &apos;t hide .
Most of us spend the majority of our waking hours involved in organizations .
And due to changes in globalization , changes due to advances in technology and other factors , the reality is our organizations are constantly having to adapt .
In fact , I call this the era of &quot; &quot; always-on &quot; &quot; transformation .
When I shared this idea with my wife Nicola , she said , &quot; &quot; Always-on transformation ?
That sounds exhausting . &quot; &quot; And that may be exactly what you &apos;re thinking — and you would be right .
Particularly if we continue to approach the transformation of organizations the way we always have been .
But because we can &apos;t hide , we need to sort out two things .
First , why is transformation so exhausting ?
And second , how do we fix it ?
First of all , let &apos;s acknowledge that change is hard .
People naturally resist change , especially when it &apos;s imposed on them .
But there are things that organizations do that make change even harder and more exhausting for people than it needs to be .
First of all , leaders often wait too long to act .
As a result , everything is happening in crisis mode .
Which , of course , tends to be exhausting .
Or , given the urgency , what they &apos;ll do is they &apos;ll just focus on the short-term results , but that doesn &apos;t give any hope for the future .
Or they &apos;ll just take a superficial , one-off approach , hoping that they can return back to business as usual as soon as the crisis is over .
This kind of approach is kind of the way some students approach preparing for standardized tests .
In order to get test scores to go up , teachers will end up teaching to the test .
Now , that approach can work ; test results often do go up .
But it fails the fundamental goal of education : to prepare students to succeed over the long term .
So given these obstacles , what can we do to transform the way we transform organizations so rather than being exhausting , it &apos;s actually empowering and energizing ?
To do that , we need to focus on five strategic imperatives , all of which have one thing in common : putting people first .
The first imperative for putting people first is to inspire through purpose .
Most transformations have financial and operational goals .
These are important and they can be energizing to leaders , but they tend not to be very motivating to most people in the organization .
To motivate more broadly , the transformation needs to connect with a deeper sense of purpose .
Take LEGO .
The LEGO Group has become an extraordinary global company .
Under their very capable leadership , they &apos;ve actually undergone a series of transformations .
While each of these has had a very specific focus , the North Star , linking and guiding all of them , has been Lego &apos;s powerful purpose : inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow .
Expanding globally ?
It &apos;s not about increasing sales , but about giving millions of additional children access to LEGO building bricks .
Investment and innovation ?
It &apos;s not about developing new products , but about enabling more children to experience the joy of learning through play .
Not surprisingly , that deep sense of purpose tends to be highly motivating to LEGO &apos;s people .
The second imperative for putting people first is to go all in .
Too many transformations are nothing more than head-count cutting exercises ; layoffs under the guise of transformation .
In the face of relentless competition , it may well be that you will have to take the painful decision to downsize the organization , just as you may have to lose some weight in order to run a marathon .
But losing weight alone will not get you across the finish line with a winning time .
To win you need to go all in .
You need to go all in .
Rather than just cutting costs , you need to think about initiatives that will enable you to win in the medium term , initiatives to drive growth , actions that will fundamentally change the way the company operates , and very importantly , investments to develop the leadership and the talent .
The third imperative for putting people first is to enable people with the capabilities that they need to succeed during the transformation and beyond .
Over the years I &apos;ve competed in a number of triathlons .
You know , frankly , I &apos;m not that good , but I do have one distinct capability ; I am remarkably fast at finding my bike .
( Laughter ) By the time I finish the swim , almost all the bikes are already gone . ( Laughter )
Real triathletes know that each leg — the swim , the bike , the run — really requires different capabilities , different tools , different skills , different techniques .
Likewise when we transform organizations , we need to be sure that we &apos;re giving our people the skills and the tools they need along the way .
Chronos , a global software company , recognized the need to transfer from building products — software products — to building software as a service .
To enable its people to take that transformation , first of all they invested in new tools that would enable their employees to monitor the usage of the features as well as customer satisfaction with the new service .
They also invested in skill development , so that their employees would be able to resolve customer service problems on the spot .
And very importantly , they also reinforced the collaborative behaviors that would be required to deliver an end-to-end seamless customer experience .
Because of these investments , rather than feeling overwhelmed by the transformation , Chronos employees actually felt energized and empowered in their new roles .
In the era of &quot; &quot; always-on &quot; &quot; transformation , change is a constant .
My fourth imperative therefore is to instill a culture of continuous learning .
When Satya Nadella became the CEO of Microsoft in February 2014 , he embarked on an ambitious transformation journey to prepare the company to compete in a mobile-first , cloud-first world .
This included changes to strategy , the organization and very importantly , the culture .
Microsoft &apos;s culture at the time was one of silos and internal competition — not exactly conducive to learning .
Nadella took this head-on .
He rallied his leadership around his vision for a living , learning culture , shifting from a fixed mindset , where your role was to show up as the smartest person in the room , to a growth mindset , where your role was to listen , to learn and to bring out the best in people .
Well , early days , Microsoft employees already noticed this shift in the culture — clear evidence of Microsoft putting people first .
My fifth and final imperative is specifically for leaders .
In a transformation , a leader needs to have a vision , a clear road map with milestones , and then you need to hold people accountable for results .
In other words , you need to be directive .
But in order to capture the hearts and minds of people , you also need to be inclusive .
Inclusive leadership is critical to putting people first .
I live in the San Francisco Bay area .
And right now , our basketball team is the best in the league .
We won the 2015 championship , and we &apos;re favored to win again this year .
There are many explanations for this .
They have some fabulous players , but one of the key reasons is their head coach , Steve Kerr , is an inclusive leader .
When Kerr came to the Warriors in 2014 , the Warriors were looking for a major transformation .
They hadn &apos;t won a national championship since 1975 .
Kerr came in , and he had a clear vision , and he immediately got to work .
From the outset , he reached out and engaged the players and the staff .
He created an environment of open debate and solicited suggestions .
During games he would often ask , &quot; What are you seeing that I &apos;m missing ? &quot;
One the best examples of this came in game four of the 2015 finals .
The Warriors were down two games to one when Kerr made the decision to change the starting lineup ; a bold move by any measure .
The Warriors won the game and went on to win the championship .
And it is widely viewed that that move was the pivotal move in their victory .
Interestingly , it wasn &apos;t actually Kerr &apos;s idea .
It was the idea of his 28-year-old assistant , Nick U &apos;Ren .
Because of Kerr &apos;s leadership style , U &apos;Ren felt comfortable bringing the idea forward .
And Kerr not only listened , but he implemented the idea and then afterwards , gave U &apos;Ren all the credit — actions all consistent with Kerr &apos;s highly inclusive approach to leadership .
In the era of &quot; &quot; always-on &quot; &quot; transformation , organizations are always going to be transforming .
But doing so does not have to be exhausting .
We owe it to ourselves , to our organizations and to society more broadly to boldly transform our approach to transformation .
To do that , we need to start putting people first .
Thank you .
( Applause )
You &apos;re looking at a woman who was publicly silent for a decade .
Obviously , that &apos;s changed , but only recently .
It was several months ago that I gave my very first major public talk at the Forbes 30 Under 30 summit : 1,500 brilliant people , all under the age of 30 .
That meant that in 1998 , the oldest among the group were only 14 , and the youngest , just four .
I joked with them that some might only have heard of me from rap songs .
Yes , I &apos;m in rap songs .
Almost 40 rap songs . ( Laughter ) But the night of my speech , a surprising thing happened .
At the age of 41 , I was hit on by a 27-year-old guy .
I know , right ?
He was charming and I was flattered , and I declined .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) I realized later that night , I &apos;m probably the only person over 40 who does not want to be 22 again . ( Laughter ) ( Applause )
At the age of 22 , I fell in love with my boss , and at the age of 24 , I learned the devastating consequences .
Can I see a show of hands of anyone here who didn &apos;t make a mistake or do something they regretted at 22 ?
Yep . That &apos;s what I thought .
So like me , at 22 , a few of you may have also taken wrong turns and fallen in love with the wrong person , maybe even your boss .
Unlike me , though , your boss probably wasn &apos;t the president of the United States of America .
Of course , life is full of surprises .
Not a day goes by that I &apos;m not reminded of my mistake , and I regret that mistake deeply .
In 1998 , after having been swept up into an improbable romance , I was then swept up into the eye of a political , legal and media maelstrom like we had never seen before .
Remember , just a few years earlier , news was consumed from just three places : reading a newspaper or magazine , listening to the radio , or watching television .
That was it .
But that wasn &apos;t my fate .
Instead , this scandal was brought to you by the digital revolution .
That meant we could access all the information we wanted , when we wanted it , anytime , anywhere , and when the story broke in January 1998 , it broke online .
It was the first time the traditional news was usurped by the Internet for a major news story , a click that reverberated around the world .
What that meant for me personally was that overnight I went from being a completely private figure to a publicly humiliated one worldwide .
I was patient zero of losing a personal reputation on a global scale almost instantaneously .
This rush to judgment , enabled by technology , led to mobs of virtual stone-throwers .
Granted , it was before social media , but people could still comment online , email stories , and , of course , email cruel jokes .
News sources plastered photos of me all over to sell newspapers , banner ads online , and to keep people tuned to the TV .
Do you recall a particular image of me , say , wearing a beret ?
Now , I admit I made mistakes , especially wearing that beret .
But the attention and judgment that I received , not the story , but that I personally received , was unprecedented .
I was branded as a tramp , tart , slut , whore , bimbo , and , of course , that woman .
I was seen by many but actually known by few .
And I get it : it was easy to forget that that woman was dimensional , had a soul , and was once unbroken .
When this happened to me 17 years ago , there was no name for it .
Now we call it cyberbullying and online harassment .
Today , I want to share some of my experience with you , talk about how that experience has helped shape my cultural observations , and how I hope my past experience can lead to a change that results in less suffering for others .
I lost almost everything , and I almost lost my life .
Let me paint a picture for you .
It is September of 1998 .
I &apos;m sitting in a windowless office room inside the Office of the Independent Counsel underneath humming fluorescent lights .
I &apos;m listening to the sound of my voice , my voice on surreptitiously taped phone calls that a supposed friend had made the year before .
I &apos;m here because I &apos;ve been legally required to personally authenticate all 20 hours of taped conversation .
For the past eight months , the mysterious content of these tapes has hung like the Sword of Damocles over my head .
I mean , who can remember what they said a year ago ?
Scared and mortified , I listen , listen as I prattle on about the flotsam and jetsam of the day ; listen as I confess my love for the president , and , of course , my heartbreak ; listen to my sometimes catty , sometimes churlish , sometimes silly self being cruel , unforgiving , uncouth ; listen , deeply , deeply ashamed , to the worst version of myself , a self I don &apos;t even recognize .
A few days later , the Starr Report is released to Congress , and all of those tapes and transcripts , those stolen words , form a part of it .
That people can read the transcripts is horrific enough , but a few weeks later , the audio tapes are aired on TV , and significant portions made available online .
The public humiliation was excruciating .
This was not something that happened with regularity back then in 1998 , and by this , I mean the stealing of people &apos;s private words , actions , conversations or photos , and then making them public — public without consent , public without context , and public without compassion .
Fast forward 12 years to 2010 , and now social media has been born .
The landscape has sadly become much more populated with instances like mine , whether or not someone actually make a mistake , and now it &apos;s for both public and private people .
The consequences for some have become dire , very dire .
I was on the phone with my mom in September of 2010 , and we were talking about the news of a young college freshman from Rutgers University named Tyler Clementi .
Sweet , sensitive , creative Tyler was secretly webcammed by his roommate while being intimate with another man .
When the online world learned of this incident , the ridicule and cyberbullying ignited .
A few days later , Tyler jumped from the George Washington Bridge to his death .
He was 18 .
My mom was beside herself about what happened to Tyler and his family , and she was gutted with pain in a way that I just couldn &apos;t quite understand , and then eventually I realized she was reliving 1998 , reliving a time when she sat by my bed every night , reliving a time when she made me shower with the bathroom door open , and reliving a time when both of my parents feared that I would be humiliated to death , literally .
Today , too many parents haven &apos;t had the chance to step in and rescue their loved ones .
Too many have learned of their child &apos;s suffering and humiliation after it was too late .
Tyler &apos;s tragic , senseless death was a turning point for me .
It served to recontextualize my experiences , and I then began to look at the world of humiliation and bullying around me and see something different .
In 1998 , we had no way of knowing where this brave new technology called the Internet would take us .
Since then , it has connected people in unimaginable ways , joining lost siblings , saving lives , launching revolutions , but the darkness , cyberbullying , and slut-shaming that I experienced had mushroomed .
Every day online , people , especially young people who are not developmentally equipped to handle this , are so abused and humiliated that they can &apos;t imagine living to the next day , and some , tragically , don &apos;t , and there &apos;s nothing virtual about that .
ChildLine , a U.K. nonprofit that &apos;s focused on helping young people on various issues , released a staggering statistic late last year : From 2012 to 2013 , there was an 87 percent increase in calls and emails related to cyberbullying .
A meta-analysis done out of the Netherlands showed that for the first time , cyberbullying was leading to suicidal ideations more significantly than offline bullying .
And you know what shocked me , although it shouldn &apos;t have , was other research last year that determined humiliation was a more intensely felt emotion than either happiness or even anger .
Cruelty to others is nothing new , but online , technologically enhanced shaming is amplified , uncontained , and permanently accessible .
The echo of embarrassment used to extend only as far as your family , village , school or community , but now it &apos;s the online community too .
Millions of people , often anonymously , can stab you with their words , and that &apos;s a lot of pain , and there are no perimeters around how many people can publicly observe you and put you in a public stockade .
There is a very personal price to public humiliation , and the growth of the Internet has jacked up that price .
For nearly two decades now , we have slowly been sowing the seeds of shame and public humiliation in our cultural soil , both on- and offline .
Gossip websites , paparazzi , reality programming , politics , news outlets and sometimes hackers all traffic in shame .
It &apos;s led to desensitization and a permissive environment online which lends itself to trolling , invasion of privacy , and cyberbullying .
This shift has created what Professor Nicolaus Mills calls a culture of humiliation .
Consider a few prominent examples just from the past six months alone .
Snapchat , the service which is used mainly by younger generations and claims that its messages only have the lifespan of a few seconds .
You can imagine the range of content that that gets .
A third-party app which Snapchatters use to preserve the lifespan of the messages was hacked , and 100,000 personal conversations , photos , and videos were leaked online to now have a lifespan of forever .
Jennifer Lawrence and several other actors had their iCloud accounts hacked , and private , intimate , nude photos were plastered across the Internet without their permission .
One gossip website had over five million hits for this one story .
The documents which received the most attention were private emails that had maximum public embarrassment value .
But in this culture of humiliation , there is another kind of price tag attached to public shaming .
The price does not measure the cost to the victim , which Tyler and too many others , notably women , minorities , and members of the LGBTQ community have paid , but the price measures the profit of those who prey on them .
This invasion of others is a raw material , efficiently and ruthlessly mined , packaged and sold at a profit .
A marketplace has emerged where public humiliation is a commodity and shame is an industry .
How is the money made ?
Clicks .
The more shame , the more clicks .
The more clicks , the more advertising dollars .
We &apos;re in a dangerous cycle .
The more we click on this kind of gossip , the more numb we get to the human lives behind it , and the more numb we get , the more we click .
All the while , someone is making money off of the back of someone else &apos;s suffering .
With every click , we make a choice .
The more we saturate our culture with public shaming , the more accepted it is , the more we will see behavior like cyberbullying , trolling , some forms of hacking , and online harassment .
Why ? Because they all have humiliation at their cores .
This behavior is a symptom of the culture we &apos;ve created .
Changing behavior begins with evolving beliefs .
We &apos;ve seen that to be true with racism , homophobia , and plenty of other biases , today and in the past .
As we &apos;ve changed beliefs about same-sex marriage , more people have been offered equal freedoms .
When we began valuing sustainability , more people began to recycle .
So as far as our culture of humiliation goes , what we need is a cultural revolution .
Public shaming as a blood sport has to stop , and it &apos;s time for an intervention on the Internet and in our culture .
The shift begins with something simple , but it &apos;s not easy .
Online , we &apos;ve got a compassion deficit , an empathy crisis .
Researcher Brené Brown said , and I quote , &quot; Shame can &apos;t survive empathy . &quot;
Shame cannot survive empathy .
I &apos;ve seen some very dark days in my life , and it was the compassion and empathy from my family , friends , professionals , and sometimes even strangers that saved me .
Even empathy from one person can make a difference .
The theory of minority influence , proposed by social psychologist Serge Moscovici , says that even in small numbers , when there &apos;s consistency over time , change can happen .
In the online world , we can foster minority influence by becoming upstanders .
To become an upstander means instead of bystander apathy , we can post a positive comment for someone or report a bullying situation .
Trust me , compassionate comments help abate the negativity .
We can also counteract the culture by supporting organizations that deal with these kinds of issues , like the Tyler Clementi Foundation in the U.S. , In the U.K. , there &apos;s Anti-Bullying Pro , and in Australia , there &apos;s Project Rockit .
We talk a lot about our right to freedom of expression , but we need to talk more about our responsibility to freedom of expression .
We all want to be heard , but let &apos;s acknowledge the difference between speaking up with intention and speaking up for attention .
The Internet is the superhighway for the id , but online , showing empathy to others benefits us all and helps create a safer and better world .
We need to communicate online with compassion , consume news with compassion , and click with compassion .
Just imagine walking a mile in someone else &apos;s headline .
I &apos;d like to end on a personal note .
In the past nine months , the question I &apos;ve been asked the most is why .
Why now ? Why was I sticking my head above the parapet ?
You can read between the lines in those questions , and the answer has nothing to do with politics .
The top note answer was and is because it &apos;s time : time to stop tip-toeing around my past ; time to stop living a life of opprobrium ; and time to take back my narrative .
It &apos;s also not just about saving myself .
Anyone who is suffering from shame and public humiliation needs to know one thing : You can survive it .
I know it &apos;s hard .
It may not be painless , quick or easy , but you can insist on a different ending to your story .
Have compassion for yourself .
We all deserve compassion , and to live both online and off in a more compassionate world .
Thank you for listening .
( Applause )
When we &apos;re designing new products , services or businesses , the only time you &apos;ll know if they &apos;re any good , if the designs are good , is to see how they &apos;re used in the real world , in context .
I &apos;m reminded of that every time I walk past Highbury Fields in north London .
It &apos;s absolutely beautiful .
There &apos;s a big open green space .
There &apos;s Georgian buildings around the side .
But then there &apos;s this mud trap that cuts across the middle .
People clearly don &apos;t want to walk all the way around the edge .
Instead , they want to take the shortcut , and that shortcut is self-reinforcing .
Now , this shortcut is called a desire path , and it &apos;s often the path of least resistance .
I find them fascinating , because they &apos;re often the point where design and user experience diverge .
Now at this point , I should apologize , because you guys are going to start seeing these everywhere .
But today , I &apos;m going to pick three I find interesting and share what actually it reminds me about launching new products and services .
The first is in the capital city of Brazil — Brasilia .
And it reminds me that sometimes , you have to just focus on designing for a real need at low friction .
Now , Brasilia is fascinating .
It was designed by Niemeyer in the &apos; 50s .
It was the golden age of flying , so he laid it out like a plane , as you can see there .
Slightly worryingly , he put most of the important government buildings in the cockpit .
But if you zoom in , in the very center of Brasilia , just where the point is there , you see it &apos;s littered with desire paths .
They &apos;re absolutely everywhere .
Now , they thought that they had future-proofed this design .
They thought in the future we wouldn &apos;t need to walk anywhere — we &apos;d be able to drive — so there was little need for walkways or pavements .
But as you can see , there &apos;s a real need .
These are very dangerous desire paths .
If we just pick one , in the middle , you can see it crosses 15 lanes of traffic .
It won &apos;t surprise you guys that Brasilia has five times the pedestrian accident rate of your average US city .
People are resourceful .
They &apos;ll always find the low-friction route to save money , save time .
Not all these desire paths are dangerous , I was reminded flying here when I was in Heathrow .
Many of us get frustrated when we &apos;re confronted with the obligatory walk through duty-free .
It was amazing to me how many people refused to take the long , meandering path to the left , and just cut through to the right , cut through the desire path .
The question that &apos;s interesting is : What do designers think when they see our behavior here ?
Do they think we &apos;re stupid ?
Do they think we &apos;re lazy ?
Or do they accept that this is the only truth ?
This is their product .
We &apos;re effectively co-designing their product .
So our job is to design for real needs at low friction , because if you don &apos;t , the customer will , anyway .
And it reminds me that sometimes the best way to come up with a great design is just to launch it .
Now , university campuses are fantastic for spotting desire paths .
I think it &apos;s because students are always late and they &apos;re pretty smart .
They &apos;ll always find the shortcut .
And the designers here knew that .
So they built the buildings and then they waited a few months for the paths to form .
They then paved them .
( Laughter ) Incredibly smart approach .
In fact , often , just launching the straw man of a service can teach you what people really want .
For example , Ayr Muir in Boston knew he wanted to open a restaurant .
But where should it be ?
What should the menu be ?
He launched a service , in this case a food truck , and he changed the location each day .
He &apos;d write a different menu on the side in a whiteboard marker to figure out what people wanted .
He now has a chain of restaurants .
So it can be incredibly efficient to launch something to spot the desire paths .
The third and final desire path I wanted to share with you is the UNIH .
It reminds me that the world &apos;s in flux , and we have to respond to those changes .
So as you &apos;ll guess , this is a hospital .
I &apos;ve marked for you on the left the Oncology Department .
The patients would usually stay in the hotels down on the bottom right .
This was a patient-centered organization , so they laid on cars for their patients .
But what they realized when they started offering chemotherapy is the patients rarely wanted to get in cars .
They were too nauseous , so they &apos;d walk back to their hotels .
This desire path that you see diagonally , formed .
The patients even called it &quot; &quot; The Chemo Trail . &quot; &quot; Now , when the hospital saw this originally , they tried to lay turf back over it , ignore it .
But after a while , they realized it was an important need they were meeting for their patients , so they paved it .
If we look back at the one in North London again , that desire path hasn &apos;t always been there .
The reason it sprung up is people were traveling to the mighty Arsenal Football Club stadium on game days , from the Underground station you see on the bottom right .
If we just wind the clock back a few years , when the stadium was being constructed , there is no desire path .
So our job is to watch for these desire paths emerging , and , where appropriate , pave them , as someone did here .
Someone installed a barrier , people started walking across and round the bottom as you see , and they paved it .
( Laughter ) But I think this is a wonderful reminder as well , that , actually , the world is in flux .
It &apos;s constantly changing , because if you look at the top of this image , there &apos;s another desire path forming .
So these three desire paths remind me we need to design for real human needs .
I think empathy for what your customers want is probably the biggest leading indicator of business success .
Design for real needs and design them in low friction , because if you don &apos;t offer them in low friction , someone else will , often the customer .
Secondly , often the best way to learn what people really want is to launch your service .
The answer is rarely inside the building .
Get out there and see what people really want .
And finally , in part because of technology , the world is incredibly flux at the moment .
It &apos;s changing constantly .
These desire paths are going to spring up faster than ever .
Our job is to pick the appropriate ones and pave over them .
Thank you very much .
( Applause )
About a year ago , I asked myself a question : &quot; &quot; Knowing what I know , why am I not a vegetarian ? &quot; &quot; After all , I &apos;m one of the green guys : I grew up with hippie parents in a log cabin .
I started a site called TreeHugger — I care about this stuff .
I knew that eating a mere hamburger a day can increase my risk of dying by a third .
Cruelty : I knew that the 10 billion animals we raise each year for meat are raised in factory farm conditions that we , hypocritically , wouldn &apos;t even consider for our own cats , dogs and other pets .
Environmentally , meat , amazingly , causes more emissions than all of transportation combined : cars , trains , planes , buses , boats , all of it .
And beef production uses 100 times the water that most vegetables do .
I also knew that I &apos;m not alone .
We as a society are eating twice as much meat as we did in the 50s .
So what was once the special little side treat now is the main , much more regular .
So really , any of these angles should have been enough to convince me to go vegetarian .
Yet , there I was — chk , chk , chk — tucking into a big old steak .
So why was I stalling ?
I realized that what I was being pitched was a binary solution .
It was either you &apos;re a meat eater or you &apos;re a vegetarian , and I guess I just wasn &apos;t quite ready .
Imagine your last hamburger .
( Laughter ) So my common sense , my good intentions , were in conflict with my taste buds .
And I &apos;d commit to doing it later , and not surprisingly , later never came .
Sound familiar ?
So I wondered , might there be a third solution ?
And I thought about it , and I came up with one .
I &apos;ve been doing it for the last year , and it &apos;s great .
It &apos;s called weekday veg .
The name says it all : Nothing with a face Monday through Friday .
On the weekend , your choice .
Simple .
If you want to take it to the next level , remember , the major culprits in terms of environmental damage and health are red and processed meats .
So you want to swap those out with some good , sustainably harvested fish .
It &apos;s structured , so it ends up being simple to remember , and it &apos;s okay to break it here and there .
After all , cutting five days a week is cutting 70 percent of your meat intake .
The program has been great , weekday veg .
My footprint &apos;s smaller , I &apos;m lessening pollution , I feel better about the animals , I &apos;m even saving money .
Best of all , I &apos;m healthier , I know that I &apos;m going to live longer , and I &apos;ve even lost a little weight .
So , please ask yourselves , for your health , for your pocketbook , for the environment , for the animals : What &apos;s stopping you from giving weekday veg a shot ?
After all , if all of us ate half as much meat , it would be like half of us were vegetarians .
Thank you .
( Applause )
Imagine you &apos;re walking through a forest .
I &apos;m guessing you &apos;re thinking of a collection of trees , what we foresters call a stand , with their rugged stems and their beautiful crowns .
Yes , trees are the foundation of forests , but a forest is much more than what you see , and today I want to change the way you think about forests .
You see , underground there is this other world , a world of infinite biological pathways that connect trees and allow them to communicate and allow the forest to behave as though it &apos;s a single organism .
It might remind you of a sort of intelligence .
How do I know this ?
Here &apos;s my story .
I grew up in the forests of British Columbia .
I used to lay on the forest floor and stare up at the tree crowns .
They were giants .
My grandfather was a giant , too .
He was a horse logger , and he used to selectively cut cedar poles from the inland rainforest .
Grandpa taught me about the quiet and cohesive ways of the woods , and how my family was knit into it .
So I followed in grandpa &apos;s footsteps .
He and I had this curiosity about forests , and my first big &quot; &quot; aha &quot; &quot; moment was at the outhouse by our lake .
Our poor dog Jigs had slipped and fallen into the pit .
So grandpa ran up with his shovel to rescue the poor dog .
He was down there , swimming in the muck .
But as grandpa dug through that forest floor , I became fascinated with the roots , and under that , what I learned later was the white mycelium and under that the red and yellow mineral horizons .
Eventually , grandpa and I rescued the poor dog , but it was at that moment that I realized that that palette of roots and soil was really the foundation of the forest .
And I wanted to know more .
So I studied forestry .
But soon I found myself working alongside the powerful people in charge of the commercial harvest .
The extent of the clear-cutting was alarming , and I soon found myself conflicted by my part in it .
Not only that , the spraying and hacking of the aspens and birches to make way for the more commercially valuable planted pines and firs was astounding .
It seemed that nothing could stop this relentless industrial machine .
So I went back to school , and I studied my other world .
You see , scientists had just discovered in the laboratory in vitro that one pine seedling root could transmit carbon to another pine seedling root .
But this was in the laboratory , and I wondered , could this happen in real forests ?
I thought yes .
Trees in real forests might also share information below ground .
But this was really controversial , and some people thought I was crazy , and I had a really hard time getting research funding .
But I persevered , and I eventually conducted some experiments deep in the forest , 25 years ago .
I grew 80 replicates of three species : paper birch , Douglas fir , and western red cedar .
I figured the birch and the fir would be connected in a belowground web , but not the cedar .
It was in its own other world .
And I gathered my apparatus , and I had no money , so I had to do it on the cheap .
So I went to Canadian Tire — ( Laughter ) and I bought some plastic bags and duct tape and shade cloth , a timer , a paper suit , a respirator .
And then I borrowed some high-tech stuff from my university : a Geiger counter , a scintillation counter , a mass spectrometer , microscopes .
And then I got some really dangerous stuff : syringes full of radioactive carbon-14 carbon dioxide gas and some high pressure bottles of the stable isotope carbon-13 carbon dioxide gas .
But I was legally permitted .
( Laughter ) Oh , and I forgot some stuff , important stuff : the bug spray , the bear spray , the filters for my respirator .
Oh well .
The first day of the experiment , we got out to our plot and a grizzly bear and her cub chased us off .
And I had no bear spray .
But you know , this is how forest research in Canada goes .
( Laughter ) So I came back the next day , and mama grizzly and her cub were gone .
So this time , we really got started , and I pulled on my white paper suit , I put on my respirator , and then I put the plastic bags over my trees .
I got my giant syringes , and I injected the bags with my tracer isotope carbon dioxide gases , first the birch .
I injected carbon-14 , the radioactive gas , into the bag of birch .
And then for fir , I injected the stable isotope carbon-13 carbon dioxide gas .
I used two isotopes , because I was wondering whether there was two-way communication going on between these species .
I got to the final bag , the 80th replicate , and all of a sudden mama grizzly showed up again .
And she started to chase me , and I had my syringes above my head , and I was swatting the mosquitos , and I jumped into the truck , and I thought , &quot; This is why people do lab studies . &quot;
( Laughter ) I waited an hour .
I figured it would take this long for the trees to suck up the CO2 through photosynthesis , turn it into sugars , send it down into their roots , and maybe , I hypothesized , shuttle that carbon belowground to their neighbors .
After the hour was up , I rolled down my window , and I checked for mama grizzly .
Oh good , she &apos;s over there eating her huckleberries .
So I got out of the truck and I got to work .
I went to my first bag with the birch . I pulled the bag off .
I ran my Geiger counter over its leaves .
Kkhh !
Perfect .
The birch had taken up the radioactive gas .
Then the moment of truth .
I went over to the fir tree .
I pulled off its bag .
I ran the Geiger counter up its needles , and I heard the most beautiful sound .
Kkhh !
It was the sound of birch talking to fir , and birch was saying , &quot; &quot; Hey , can I help you ? &quot; &quot; And fir was saying , &quot; &quot; Yeah , can you send me some of your carbon ?
Because somebody threw a shade cloth over me . &quot; &quot; I went up to cedar , and I ran the Geiger counter over its leaves , and as I suspected , silence .
Cedar was in its own world .
It was not connected into the web interlinking birch and fir .
I was so excited , I ran from plot to plot and I checked all 80 replicates .
The evidence was clear .
The C-13 and C-14 was showing me that paper birch and Douglas fir were in a lively two-way conversation .
It turns out at that time of the year , in the summer , that birch was sending more carbon to fir than fir was sending back to birch , especially when the fir was shaded .
And then in later experiments , we found the opposite , that fir was sending more carbon to birch than birch was sending to fir , and this was because the fir was still growing while the birch was leafless .
So it turns out the two species were interdependent , like yin and yang .
And at that moment , everything came into focus for me .
I knew I had found something big , something that would change the way we look at how trees interact in forests , from not just competitors but to cooperators .
And I had found solid evidence of this massive belowground communications network , the other world .
Now , I truly hoped and believed that my discovery would change how we practice forestry , from clear-cutting and herbiciding to more holistic and sustainable methods , methods that were less expensive and more practical .
What was I thinking ?
I &apos;ll come back to that .
So how do we do science in complex systems like forests ?
Well , as forest scientists , we have to do our research in the forests , and that &apos;s really tough , as I &apos;ve shown you .
And we have to be really good at running from bears .
But mostly , we have to persevere in spite of all the stuff stacked against us .
And we have to follow our intuition and our experiences and ask really good questions .
And then we &apos;ve got to gather our data and then go verify .
For me , I &apos;ve conducted and published hundreds of experiments in the forest .
Some of my oldest experimental plantations are now over 30 years old .
You can check them out .
That &apos;s how forest science works .
So now I want to talk about the science .
How were paper birch and Douglas fir communicating ?
Well , it turns out they were conversing not only in the language of carbon but also nitrogen and phosphorus and water and defense signals and allele chemicals and hormones — information .
And you know , I have to tell you , before me , scientists had thought that this belowground mutualistic symbiosis called a mycorrhiza was involved .
Mycorrhiza literally means &quot; &quot; fungus root . &quot; &quot; You see their reproductive organs when you walk through the forest .
They &apos;re the mushrooms .
The mushrooms , though , are just the tip of the iceberg , because coming out of those stems are fungal threads that form a mycelium , and that mycelium infects and colonizes the roots of all the trees and plants .
And where the fungal cells interact with the root cells , there &apos;s a trade of carbon for nutrients , and that fungus gets those nutrients by growing through the soil and coating every soil particle .
The web is so dense that there can be hundreds of kilometers of mycelium under a single footstep .
And not only that , that mycelium connects different individuals in the forest , individuals not only of the same species but between species , like birch and fir , and it works kind of like the Internet .
You see , like all networks , mycorrhizal networks have nodes and links .
We made this map by examining the short sequences of DNA of every tree and every fungal individual in a patch of Douglas fir forest .
In this picture , the circles represent the Douglas fir , or the nodes , and the lines represent the interlinking fungal highways , or the links .
The biggest , darkest nodes are the busiest nodes .
We call those hub trees , or more fondly , mother trees , because it turns out that those hub trees nurture their young , the ones growing in the understory .
And if you can see those yellow dots , those are the young seedlings that have established within the network of the old mother trees .
In a single forest , a mother tree can be connected to hundreds of other trees .
And using our isotope tracers , we have found that mother trees will send their excess carbon through the mycorrhizal network to the understory seedlings , and we &apos;ve associated this with increased seedling survival by four times .
Now , we know we all favor our own children , and I wondered , could Douglas fir recognize its own kin , like mama grizzly and her cub ?
So we set about an experiment , and we grew mother trees with kin and stranger &apos;s seedlings .
And it turns out they do recognize their kin .
Mother trees colonize their kin with bigger mycorrhizal networks .
They send them more carbon below ground .
They even reduce their own root competition to make elbow room for their kids .
When mother trees are injured or dying , they also send messages of wisdom on to the next generation of seedlings .
So we &apos;ve used isotope tracing to trace carbon moving from an injured mother tree down her trunk into the mycorrhizal network and into her neighboring seedlings , not only carbon but also defense signals .
And these two compounds have increased the resistance of those seedlings to future stresses .
So trees talk .
( Applause ) Thank you .
Through back and forth conversations , they increase the resilience of the whole community .
It probably reminds you of our own social communities , and our families , well , at least some families .
( Laughter ) So let &apos;s come back to the initial point .
Forests aren &apos;t simply collections of trees , they &apos;re complex systems with hubs and networks that overlap and connect trees and allow them to communicate , and they provide avenues for feedbacks and adaptation , and this makes the forest resilient .
That &apos;s because there are many hub trees and many overlapping networks .
But they &apos;re also vulnerable , vulnerable not only to natural disturbances like bark beetles that preferentially attack big old trees but high-grade logging and clear-cut logging .
You see , you can take out one or two hub trees , but there comes a tipping point , because hub trees are not unlike rivets in an airplane .
You can take out one or two and the plane still flies , but you take out one too many , or maybe that one holding on the wings , and the whole system collapses .
So now how are you thinking about forests ? Differently ?
( Audience ) Yes .
Cool .
I &apos;m glad .
So , remember I said earlier that I hoped that my research , my discoveries would change the way we practice forestry .
Well , I want to take a check on that 30 years later here in western Canada .
This is about 100 kilometers to the west of us , just on the border of Banff National Park .
That &apos;s a lot of clear-cuts .
It &apos;s not so pristine .
In 2014 , the World Resources Institute reported that Canada in the past decade has had the highest forest disturbance rate of any country worldwide , and I bet you thought it was Brazil .
In Canada , it &apos;s 3.6 percent per year .
Now , by my estimation , that &apos;s about four times the rate that is sustainable .
Now , massive disturbance at this scale is known to affect hydrological cycles , degrade wildlife habitat , and emit greenhouse gases back into the atmosphere , which creates more disturbance and more tree diebacks .
Not only that , we &apos;re continuing to plant one or two species and weed out the aspens and birches .
These simplified forests lack complexity , and they &apos;re really vulnerable to infections and bugs .
And as climate changes , this is creating a perfect storm for extreme events , like the massive mountain pine beetle outbreak that just swept across North America , or that megafire in the last couple months in Alberta .
So I want to come back to my final question : instead of weakening our forests , how can we reinforce them and help them deal with climate change ?
Well , you know , the great thing about forests as complex systems is they have enormous capacity to self-heal .
In our recent experiments , we found with patch-cutting and retention of hub trees and regeneration to a diversity of species and genes and genotypes that these mycorrhizal networks , they recover really rapidly .
So with this in mind , I want to leave you with four simple solutions .
And we can &apos;t kid ourselves that these are too complicated to act on .
First , we all need to get out in the forest .
We need to reestablish local involvement in our own forests .
You see , most of our forests now are managed using a one-size-fits-all approach , but good forest stewardship requires knowledge of local conditions .
Second , we need to save our old-growth forests .
These are the repositories of genes and mother trees and mycorrhizal networks .
So this means less cutting .
I don &apos;t mean no cutting , but less cutting .
And third , when we do cut , we need to save the legacies , the mother trees and networks , and the wood , the genes , so they can pass their wisdom onto the next generation of trees so they can withstand the future stresses coming down the road .
We need to be conservationists .
And finally , fourthly and finally , we need to regenerate our forests with a diversity of species and genotypes and structures by planting and allowing natural regeneration .
We have to give Mother Nature the tools she needs to use her intelligence to self-heal .
And we need to remember that forests aren &apos;t just a bunch of trees competing with each other , they &apos;re supercooperators .
So back to Jigs .
Jigs &apos;s fall into the outhouse showed me this other world , and it changed my view of forests .
I hope today to have changed how you think about forests .
Thank you .
( Applause )
And she said , &quot; &quot; How are you ? &quot; &quot; And I said , &quot; &quot; I &apos;m great . I &apos;m okay . &quot; &quot; She said , &quot; &quot; What &apos;s going on ? &quot; &quot; And this is a therapist who sees therapists , because we have to go to those , because their B.S. meters are good .
( Music ) Roughly 43,000 years ago , a young cave bear died in the rolling hills on the northwest border of modern day Slovenia .
A thousand years later , a mammoth died in southern Germany .
A few centuries after that , a griffon vulture also died in the same vicinity .
And we know almost nothing about how these animals met their deaths , but these different creatures dispersed across both time and space did share one remarkable fate .
After their deaths , a bone from each of their skeletons was crafted by human hands into a flute .
Think about that for a second .
Imagine you &apos;re a caveman , 40,000 years ago .
You &apos;ve mastered fire .
You &apos;ve built simple tools for hunting .
You &apos;ve learned how to craft garments from animal skins to keep yourself warm in the winter .
What would you choose to invent next ?
It seems preposterous that you would invent the flute , a tool that created useless vibrations in air molecules .
But that is exactly what our ancestors did .
Now this turns out to be surprisingly common in the history of innovation .
Sometimes people invent things because they want to stay alive or feed their children or conquer the village next door .
But just as often , new ideas come into the world simply because they &apos;re fun .
And here &apos;s the really strange thing : many of those playful but seemingly frivolous inventions ended up sparking momentous transformations in science , in politics and society .
Take what may be the most important invention of modern times : programmable computers .
Now , the standard story is that computers descend from military technology , since many of the early computers were designed specifically to crack wartime codes or calculate rocket trajectories .
But in fact , the origins of the modern computer are much more playful , even musical , than you might imagine .
The idea behind the flute , of just pushing air through tubes to make a sound , was eventually modified to create the first organ more than 2,000 years ago .
Someone came up with the brilliant idea of triggering sounds by pressing small levers with our fingers , inventing the first musical keyboard .
Now , keyboards evolved from organs to clavichords to harpsichords to the piano , until the middle of the 19th century , when a bunch of inventors finally hit on the idea of using a keyboard to trigger not sounds but letters .
In fact , the very first typewriter was originally called &quot; &quot; the writing harpsichord . &quot; &quot; Flutes and music led to even more powerful breakthroughs .
About a thousand years ago , at the height of the Islamic Renaissance , three brothers in Baghdad designed a device that was an automated organ .
They called it &quot; &quot; the instrument that plays itself . &quot; &quot; Now , the instrument was basically a giant music box .
The organ could be trained to play various songs by using instructions encoded by placing pins on a rotating cylinder .
And if you wanted the machine to play a different song , you just swapped a new cylinder in with a different code on it .
This instrument was the first of its kind .
It was programmable .
Now , conceptually , this was a massive leap forward .
The whole idea of hardware and software becomes thinkable for the first time with this invention .
And that incredibly powerful concept didn &apos;t come to us as an instrument of war or of conquest , or necessity at all .
It came from the strange delight of watching a machine play music .
In fact , the idea of programmable machines was exclusively kept alive by music for about 700 years .
In the 1700s , music-making machines became the playthings of the Parisian elite .
Showmen used the same coded cylinders to control the physical movements of what were called automata , an early kind of robot .
One of the most famous of those robots was , you guessed it , an automated flute player designed by a brilliant French inventor named Jacques de Vaucanson .
And as de Vaucanson was designing his robot musician , he had another idea .
If you could program a machine to make pleasing sounds , why not program it to weave delightful patterns of color out of cloth ?
Instead of using the pins of the cylinder to represent musical notes , they would represent threads with different colors .
If you wanted a new pattern for your fabric , you just programmed a new cylinder .
This was the first programmable loom .
Now , the cylinders were too expensive and time-consuming to make , but a half century later , another French inventor named Jacquard hit upon the brilliant idea of using paper-punched cards instead of metal cylinders .
Paper turned out to be much cheaper and more flexible as a way of programming the device .
That punch card system inspired Victorian inventor Charles Babbage to create his analytical engine , the first true programmable computer ever designed .
And punch cards were used by computer programmers as late as the 1970s .
So ask yourself this question : what really made the modern computer possible ?
Yes , the military involvement is an important part of the story , but inventing a computer also required other building blocks : music boxes , toy robot flute players , harpsichord keyboards , colorful patterns woven into fabric , and that &apos;s just a small part of the story .
There &apos;s a long list of world-changing ideas and technologies that came out of play : public museums , rubber , probability theory , the insurance business and many more .
Necessity isn &apos;t always the mother of invention .
The playful state of mind is fundamentally exploratory , seeking out new possibilities in the world around us .
And that seeking is why so many experiences that started with simple delight and amusement eventually led us to profound breakthroughs .
Now , I think this has implications for how we teach kids in school and how we encourage innovation in our workspaces , but thinking about play and delight this way also helps us detect what &apos;s coming next .
Think about it : if you were sitting there in 1750 trying to figure out the big changes coming to society in the 19th , the 20th centuries , automated machines , computers , artificial intelligence , a programmable flute entertaining the Parisian elite would have been as powerful a clue as anything else at the time .
It seemed like an amusement at best , not useful in any serious way , but it turned out to be the beginning of a tech revolution that would change the world .
You &apos;ll find the future wherever people are having the most fun .
Dr. Martin Luther King , Jr . , in a 1968 speech where he reflects upon the Civil Rights Movement , states , &quot; &quot; In the end , we will remember not the words of our enemies but the silence of our friends . &quot; &quot; As a teacher , I &apos;ve internalized this message .
Every day , all around us , we see the consequences of silence manifest themselves in the form of discrimination , violence , genocide and war .
In the classroom , I challenge my students to explore the silences in their own lives through poetry .
We work together to fill those spaces , to recognize them , to name them , to understand that they don &apos;t have to be sources of shame .
In an effort to create a culture within my classroom where students feel safe sharing the intimacies of their own silences , I have four core principles posted on the board that sits in the front of my class , which every student signs at the beginning of the year : read critically , write consciously , speak clearly , tell your truth .
And I find myself thinking a lot about that last point , tell your truth .
And I realized that if I was going to ask my students to speak up , I was going to have to tell my truth and be honest with them about the times where I failed to do so .
So I tell them that growing up , as a kid in a Catholic family in New Orleans , during Lent I was always taught that the most meaningful thing one could do was to give something up , sacrifice something you typically indulge in to prove to God you understand his sanctity .
But one year , I gave up speaking .
I figured the most valuable thing I could sacrifice was my own voice , but it was like I hadn &apos;t realized that I had given that up a long time ago .
I spent so much of my life telling people the things they wanted to hear instead of the things they needed to , told myself I wasn &apos;t meant to be anyone &apos;s conscience because I still had to figure out being my own , so sometimes I just wouldn &apos;t say anything , appeasing ignorance with my silence , unaware that validation doesn &apos;t need words to endorse its existence .
When Christian was beat up for being gay , I put my hands in my pocket and walked with my head down as if I didn &apos;t even notice .
I couldn &apos;t use my locker for weeks because the bolt on the lock reminded me of the one I had put on my lips when the homeless man on the corner looked at me with eyes up merely searching for an affirmation that he was worth seeing .
We spend so much time listening to the things people are saying that we rarely pay attention to the things they don &apos;t .
Silence is the residue of fear .
It is feeling your flaws gut-wrench guillotine your tongue .
It is the air retreating from your chest because it doesn &apos;t feel safe in your lungs .
Silence is Rwandan genocide . Silence is Katrina .
It is what you hear when there aren &apos;t enough body bags left .
It is the sound after the noose is already tied .
It is charring . It is chains . It is privilege . It is pain .
There is no time to pick your battles when your battles have already picked you .
I will not let silence wrap itself around my indecision .
I will tell Christian that he is a lion , a sanctuary of bravery and brilliance .
I will ask that homeless man what his name is and how his day was , because sometimes all people want to be is human .
So this year , instead of giving something up , I will live every day as if there were a microphone tucked under my tongue , a stage on the underside of my inhibition .
Because who has to have a soapbox when all you &apos;ve ever needed is your voice ?
Thank you .
( Applause )
